EVI:Rather:self-evident). Our principle rather asserts what follows: If we
SEQ:Course:Must
CON:Obtaining
EVI:Mission:To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
SEQ:Second:Copy
SEQ:Plausible:Latter
EVI:Rigid:arranged on a rigid body that the reflecting surfaces face each other.
CON:Pick
EVI:Rods:behaviour of measuring-rods and clocks and also of freely-moving
EVI:Observation:place of observation.
SEQ:Relativity:Laid
EVI:Real:instead of the real quantity _t_, we can regard the space-time
SEQ:Need:Critical
EVI:Motion:According to Newton’s law of motion, we have
EVI:Relative:(world), relative to which points at rest remain at rest and points in
SEQ:Piece:Iron
SEQ:Statement:Bodies
EVI:Problem:solution of the problem of gravitation.
SEQ:Regard:Present
EVI:Only:(“world”), even when only a relatively small part of their worldsphere
EVI:Course:formulated in a particularly simple manner, and of course only on
EVI:Straight:straight line. Three points _A, B_ and _C_ on a rigid body thus lie in
EVI:Defining:the position of defining Cartesian co-ordinates directly with their
EVI:Chest:the chest. He must therefore take up this pressure by means of his legs
EVI:Mathematically:place along the embankment, which had mathematically to assume the
EVI:Railway:are simultaneous _with reference to the railway embankment_ also
SEQ:Rests:Fundamental
SEQ:Reported:Within
EVI:Takes:light takes place according to this equation. We thus see that the
REL:Motion:Translation
EVI:Must:respect to the carriage must not be considered equal to the duration of
EVI:Capable:to be in the neighbourhood of the sun, and are thus capable of
EVI:Postulate:result we have gained a powerful argument for a generalised postulate
EVI:Indicated:indicated, which are due to the relative motion of the earth with
EVI:Erecting:relative to the surface of the earth by erecting a pole perpendicularly
EVI:These:four of these little rods on the marble slab so that they constitute a
SEQ:Relativity:Agreement
EVI:Exactly:Obviously our problem can be exactly formulated in the following
SEQ:Most:Recently
EVI:Support:public support and donations to carry out its mission of
SEQ:These:Distance
SEQ:Propositions:Axioms
SEQ:Field:Nevertheless
EVI:Position:less quickly, according to the position in which the clock is situated
EVI:Gravitation:theory of gravitation.[18] But since the observer believes in the
SEQ:Amount:Energy
EVI:Variables:space-time variables _x, y, z, t_ of the original coordinate system
SEQ:Unfounded:Consider
EVI:Laws:empirical laws, from which the general laws can be ascertained by
EVI:Xxiii:general postulate of relativity (Section XXIII).
SEQ:Choice:Body
CON:Advisable
SEQ:Corresponding:Lines
EVI:Also:sense also a continuum; for to every event there are as many
EVI:Motion:stars, if we could disregard the motion of the fixed stars themselves
EVI:Agreed:agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
EVI:Reference:reference which are accelerated with respect to each other, and as a
EVI:Disposal:small for the gravitational fields at our disposal in practice, its
REL:Conservation:Energy
EVI:Geometry:able to regard the geometry of their universe as being plane geometry
SEQ:Clock:Rest
SEQ:Valid:Standpoint
SEQ:Body:Propositions
SEQ:Gravity:Lies
EVI:Transformation:since the equations of the Lorentz transformation were derived
EVI:Photographs:[16] By means of the star photographs of two expeditions equipped by a
SEQ:Pole:Should
SEQ:Hitherto:Obtained
REL:Kind:Centre
SEQ:Conclusions:About
SEQ:Euclidean:Then
EVI:Holds:state of motion is such that the law of inertia holds relative to it is
EVI:System:stars do not move in a circle. A system of co-ordinates of which the
EVI:Form:the form of a series, we obtain
SEQ:Measuring:Short
EVI:Considerable:several theories, which differ from one another to a considerable
REL:Decreases:Zero
EVI:Being:we have just written down does not hold in reality. For the time being,
SEQ:System:Equal
EVI:Space:analogy, namely, the three-dimensional spherical space which was
REL:Able:Associate
EVI:Theory:rays required by the general theory of relativity is only exceedingly
SEQ:Misdeed:Footpath
CON:Role
SEQ:Seconds:Ought
SEQ:Emerged:Initial
CON:Good
EVI:Also:shows that also from the standpoint of the theory of relativity this
SEQ:Validity:Construction
SEQ:Hitherto:Evinced
EVI:Work:written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
EVI:Satisfied:identically satisfied by the transformation can be expressed thus:
SEQ:Required:Process
SEQ:Discussed:Section
EVI:Possible:A direct comparison of this relation with experiment is not possible at
SEQ:Orbit:Sense
SEQ:Special:Rules
SEQ:Absorbed:Energy
SEQ:Increases:Amount
EVI:Kind:of a special kind is then present with respect to these bodies (cf.
SEQ:General:Postulate
SEQ:Person:Railway
SEQ:Agreed:Donate
EVI:Consideration:The four-dimensional mode of consideration of the “world” is natural on
EVI:Brought:brought forward against the general principle of relativity at the end
SEQ:Photograph:Ought
SEQ:Analogy:Complete
EVI:Whether:be generalised. Obviously it is immaterial whether the axes of _K′_ be
REL:Possible:Make
EVI:Project:Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
SEQ:Light:Galileian
CON:Adding
EVI:About:on the dense companion of Sirius, for which the effect is about thirty
SEQ:Structure:Largest
EVI:Explanation:written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
SEQ:Else:Than
SEQ:Rest:Here
EVI:Specially:spherical surface. We can specially measure up the area (_F_) of this
SEQ:Height:Cloud
EVI:Particular:theory of relativity. As being of particular importance, I mention here
REL:Complex:Empirical
EVI:Always:to take for granted that the propagation of light always takes place
EVI:Forth:or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.
SEQ:Status:Compliance
EVI:Geometrical:associated with the geometrical ideas. In less exact terms we can
SEQ:Seen:Reference
EVI:System:This system of equations is often termed the “Galilei transformation.”
SEQ:Riemann:Treating
EVI:Propagation:incompatibility of the law of propagation of light with the principle
SEQ:Step:Motherly
SEQ:Slab:Should
SEQ:Result:Include
EVI:Bodies:only says something about the motion of the bodies, but it also
SEQ:Ideas:Less
EVI:Favour:of light (Doppler principle). The experimental arguments in favour of
EVI:Space:object in space is based on the specification of the point on a rigid
SEQ:Required:Particular
EVI:Paragraph:in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO
EVI:Same:Certain considerations suggest that we should refer the same Galileian
EVI:Liquid:is the index of refraction of the liquid. On the other hand, owing to
REL:Advent:Relativity
EVI:First:previous section the answer is self-evident. In the first place we
EVI:Equations:fundamental equations of the electrodynamics of Maxwell: A body moving
EVI:Agreement:the theory of relativity, and the agreement is, indeed, very exact.
EVI:Confirmed:The results of the measurements confirmed the theory in a thoroughly
SEQ:Nowhere:Departs
EVI:Concerning:representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
SEQ:Differ:Sensibly
EVI:Side:Suppose that the man in the chest fixes a rope to the inner side of the
REL:Correct:Within
EVI:Only:of Galilei-Newton can be regarded as valid only for a Galileian system
EVI:Assign:continuum in an arbitrary manner to Gauss co-ordinates. We assign to
EVI:Arrived:logically rigid theory could be arrived at. This theory has been called
EVI:Hardly:of which will hardly be doubted without empirical evidence to the
CON:Unable
EVI:Importance:of importance for its effect in exciting a field.
EVI:Section:interpretation, and which, according to Section XXVI, can be regarded
EVI:Relative:the ray of light relative to the carriage. It is obvious that we can
EVI:Relative:relative to a particular body of reference.
EVI:Given:_x_ and _t_ are given.
SEQ:Volume:Determined
EVI:Speak:speak of a “continuum,” and owing to the fact that there are three
CON:Centre
CON:Allows
CON:Speak
EVI:Shall:theory, with which we shall deal later. In the following pages we shall
EVI:Grave:position in space with “time.” I should load my conscience with grave
SEQ:Relativity:Implies
SEQ:Happening:Three
EVI:Attach:it is possible to draw the _u_-curves and _v_-curves and to attach
SEQ:Experience:Special
EVI:Measurable:distance being measurable and well defined from a physical point of
EVI:Consideration:(_b_) If there is any matter in the domain under consideration, only
SEQ:Above:Definition
EVI:Follows:for the body. From these two relations follows:
CON:Kinds
SEQ:Works:Your
EVI:Equation:the end of Appendix II] is transformed into this equation.
EVI:Words:the average everywhere the same. In other words: However far we might
SEQ:Remaining:Planets
EVI:Problem:V. Relativity and the Problem of Space
SEQ:Under:Other
EVI:Velocity:exactness that this velocity is the same for all colours, because if
SEQ:Stars:Seconds
SEQ:Relativity:View
EVI:Expressed:identically satisfied by the transformation can be expressed thus:
SEQ:Framework:Rods
EVI:Charm:square constructed with rods. The great charm resulting from this
EVI:Principle:We can state this general principle of relativity in still another
EVI:Trajectory:point on the trajectory it must be stated at what time the body is
EVI:Increase:“expand” by in amount proportional to the increase of temperature. We
SEQ:Considerations:Have
EVI:Claim:points which can claim a physical existence are in reality the
EVI:Origin:For the origin of _K′_ we have permanently _x′_ = 0, and hence
SEQ:Method:Interpretation
EVI:Possession:thought. Once in possession of the Lorentz transformation, however, we
EVI:Requiring:requiring any special hypothesis whatsoever as to the structure and the
EVI:General:mathematical treatment of continua in general, in which
EVI:Length:reference to _K′_ must be exactly the same as the length, as judged
EVI:According:light takes place according to this equation. We thus see that the
CON:Ions
REL:Kind:Density
SEQ:Development:Based
EVI:Shows:detailed examination of the question shows that the curvature of light
EVI:Next:during the interval between one perihelion and the next.) In this
EVI:Force:enclose the average mass ρ0_V_. Thus the number of lines of force
EVI:Surface:which is situated in free space (or on the surface of a smaller
SEQ:Along:Floor
REL:Means:Determining
SEQ:Necessity:Hold
SEQ:Equal:Obtain
EVI:Passes:which passes the sun at a distance of Δ sun-radii from its centre, the
SEQ:Clearly:What
SEQ:Development:Exact
CON:Successful
SEQ:Rather:Fact
EVI:Principle:of light (Doppler principle). The experimental arguments in favour of
EVI:Hypotheses:by means of classical mechanics only on the assumption of hypotheses
EVI:Motion:only in the sense of Doppler’s principle, as an expansive motion of the
SEQ:Values:Provided
EVI:Observations:observations of the cloud from different positions on the ground, and
SEQ:Work:Unprotected
SEQ:Question:Energy
SEQ:During:Motion
EVI:Need:representation with the help of classical mechanics, there was no need
EVI:Itself:significance of the statement is clear in itself and needs no further
SEQ:Dimensional:Like
EVI:Finally:they approach each other, and finally they run together again at a
SEQ:Convention:Marks
EVI:Coordinates:numbers (Gaussian coordinates) which differ by an indefinitely small
EVI:Measuring:from _K′_, of a unit measuring-rod which is at rest relative to _K_. In
SEQ:Used:Reference
EVI:Kind:even need to be of such a kind that we must regard _x_1, _x_2, _x_3, as
SEQ:Necessary:Consequence
SEQ:Mark:Each
SEQ:Being:Three
EVI:Until:diminish, until finally, at great distances, it is succeeded by an
EVI:Addition:But in addition to K, all bodies of reference _K′_ should be given
EVI:Without:theory, without the introduction of particular hypotheses; and as the
CON:Lying
CON:Freundlich
CON:Quickly
EVI:Indeed:indeed every other process) to a rigid reference-body (co-ordinate
EVI:Space:with respect to a Galileian reference-body _K_ by the space co-ordinate
EVI:Each:laws appeared to be quite independent of each other. By means of the
REL:Task:Treating
EVI:Points:goes through two points. We can only say that Euclidean geometry deals
SEQ:Mentioned:Connection
EVI:Without:obtained here without any particular assumption, whereas Newton had to
SEQ:Before:Using
EVI:Depend:field will of course depend on the motion chosen for _K′._ According to
EVI:Carriage:(_b_) the railway carriage as reference-body,
CON:Forces
EVI:Quite:quite inadequate. What does it mean to assign to an event the
EVI:Strives:justified, every intellect which strives after generalisation must feel
SEQ:Viii:Idea
CON:Class
EVI:Physics:physics which is conformable to the general principle of relativity,
EVI:Direction:_K_ should be in the direction of the _x_-axis. A simple consideration
EVI:Present:present time (1920) astronomers are working with great zeal towards the
SEQ:Rays:Required
EVI:Created:Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
SEQ:Continuum:Respect
EVI:Reaching:sun,[22] and a displacement of the spectral lines of light reaching us
EVI:Principles:of moving bodies follows from the two fundamental principles of the
SEQ:Continuum:Three
EVI:Reader:the power of abstraction of the reader.
EVI:Come:electromagnetic phenomena, we have come to regard action at a distance
REL:Result:Obtained
EVI:Motion:THE BEHAVIOUR OF MEASURING-RODS AND CLOCKS IN MOTION
SEQ:Place:Constants
SEQ:Uniform:Translatory
EVI:License:the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
SEQ:General:Field
SEQ:Performing:Copying
EVI:System:the sun and the planet. In such a system, the sun, or the common centre
EVI:Solar:the neighbourhood of the sun are photographed during a solar eclipse.
SEQ:Continuum:General
EVI:Places:This primitive method of place specification deals only with places on
EVI:Unlimited:frequently referred, cannot claim any unlimited validity. A curvature
SEQ:Under:Notice
EVI:System:system of co-ordinate values, _x_1, _x_2, _x_3, _x_4, in common. After
SEQ:Learn:Body
SEQ:Travels:Motionless
EVI:Agreement:agreement of their four co-ordinates _x_1, _x_2, _x_3, _x_4. Thus in
EVI:Course:ought to possess something of the nature of a centre. Of course we
EVI:Relativity:relativity. But a simple and apparently quite reliable consideration
EVI:Straight:situated on a straight line, if their apparent positions can be made to
EVI:First:existence of the deflection of light demanded by theory was first
SEQ:Suggestion:Suffice
CON:Anisotropic
CON:Contributed
EVI:Euclidean:Euclidean properties; thus the fictitious rigid body of reference is of
EVI:When:travelling train. Just when the flashes (as judged from the embankment)
EVI:Physically:motion is physically unique. This result was interpreted physically by
SEQ:Relativity:Have
EVI:Means:of the case clearer by means of an appropriate comparison. Before the
SEQ:Fizeau:Performed
SEQ:Rods:Every
EVI:Paid:any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
CON:Beam
EVI:Thus:Thus the body has the same energy as a body of mass
EVI:Events:uniform motion. At all events it is clear that the Galileian law does
EVI:Reference:a “mollusc” as reference-body _K′_. Then with respect to _K′_ there is
CON:Rigidly
EVI:Lucidity:treated in detail and with unsurpassable lucidity by Helmholtz and
CON:Follows
SEQ:Disc:Other
SEQ:Question:Arises
SEQ:Involving:Intermediary
EVI:Validity:of mass as a law of independent validity.
EVI:Face:arranged on a rigid body that the reflecting surfaces face each other.
CON:Restricted
SEQ:Everywhere:Even
SEQ:Mass:Independent
SEQ:Long:Solved
SEQ:Strongly:Illuminated
SEQ:System:Axes
SEQ:More:Important
SEQ:Moving:Under
SEQ:Left:Over
EVI:Geometry:geometry. The surface is not a Euclidean continuum with respect to the
SEQ:Same:Applies
SEQ:Designate:Curves
SEQ:Owner:Project
SEQ:Such:Course
SEQ:Theoretical:Advances
EVI:Comparable:comparable with a railway carriage travelling with a velocity of about
SEQ:Domain:Domain
EVI:Physical:broad basis for the theoretical presentation of all physical phenomena,
EVI:Takes:believes he knows, that this propagation takes place in straight lines
SEQ:Question:Should
EVI:Correct:be correct to within a few seconds of arc. This effect can be explained
CON:Stands
EVI:Appreciable:and other appreciable masses, that we have before us approximately the
EVI:Stellar:the stars and also individual stars of the stellar system are
SEQ:Simply:Means
EVI:Different:with reference to the æther, this time _T′_ is different when the body
SEQ:Selected:Galileian
REL:Offers:Donate
SEQ:Relative:Represented
SEQ:Only:Case
EVI:Because:exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
EVI:Uniformly:from other material particles continue to move uniformly in a straight
CON:Accordance
SEQ:Times:Greater
EVI:Small:indefinitely small amount from those of the event _x, y, z, t_
EVI:Absolute:according to classical mechanics, time is absolute, _i.e._ it is
REL:Using:Return
EVI:Length:from K, the length of a unit measuring-rod which is at rest with
SEQ:What:Then
CON:Incomparably
CON:Snapshot
REL:Theory:Hitherto
EVI:Introduce:_K_, we introduce new space-time variables _x′, y′, z′, t′_ of a
EVI:Velocity:original velocity in the backwards direction is continuously reduced.”
EVI:Radii:which passes the sun at a distance of Δ sun-radii from its centre, the
EVI:Variable:is variable with respect to space and time.[17] The character of this
CON:Arbitrarily
EVI:Expect:we should therefore expect that the direction of motion of the earth at
CON:Jerk
EVI:Numbers:numbers, _x_1, _x_2, _x_3, _x_4, which are known as “co-ordinates.”
SEQ:Continuum:Arbitrary
EVI:Raven:the flying raven from the moving railway carriage. we should find that
EVI:Smile:Ought we to smile at the man and say that he errs in his conclusion? I
EVI:Matter:After thinking the matter over for some time you then offer the
SEQ:Point:Fact
EVI:Other:points on this surface which are distinguishable from each other. But
SEQ:Stars:Stellar
SEQ:Have:Movement
SEQ:Party:Distributing
CON:Smaller
SEQ:Possible:Imagine
REL:Laws:Most
SEQ:Donate:Please
EVI:General:XXIX. The Solution of the Problem of Gravitation on the Basis of the General Principle of Relativity
EVI:Surfaces:event to those three plane surfaces. The lengths of these three
CON:Might
SEQ:Never:Return
EVI:Should:We should thus have the solution of our problem, if the constants _a_
EVI:Warranties:warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
EVI:These:to many points in motion. The only statements having regard to these
EVI:Takes:neither takes up nor sends out energy. Writing the expression for the
SEQ:Date:Contact
SEQ:Treating:Time
SEQ:Same:Length
EVI:Neither:has neither empirical nor theoretical foundation. We can imagine
EVI:Estimated:estimated difference between these two times is exceedingly small,
EVI:Events:and the time _t_ of the events which constitute the processes of
SEQ:Access:Work
EVI:Whether:then we should be faced with the task of testing whether or not this
SEQ:Velocity:Propagation
SEQ:Prevailing:Relatively
EVI:Restrictions:copyright restrictions so cannot be added without the permission of the
EVI:Something:Analogously, I seek in vain for a real something in classical mechanics
EVI:Only:meaning. We cannot ask whether it is true that only one straight line
SEQ:Terms:Than
EVI:Consideration:consideration. Up to the present we have only considered events taking
EVI:More:to the introduction of a more comprehensive theory, in which it lives
SEQ:Existence:Must
SEQ:Reality:Assumes
EVI:Differ:choose, the co-ordinates _x1, y1, z1, t1_ of which differ by an
EVI:Able:so far, that up to the present we have been able to find only a few
CON:Unity
SEQ:When:Equal
EVI:Surface:following form. If we are given a surface (_e.g._ an ellipsoid) in
SEQ:Able:Meteorologist
SEQ:Supposed:Hold
EVI:Michelson:In one of the most notable of these attempts Michelson devised a method
SEQ:Hence:Observer
SEQ:Instead:Equation
EVI:Description:We thus obtain the following result: Every description of events in
EVI:Eclipse:positions of the stars on the eclipse-photograph ought to appear
EVI:Such:relative to _K′_. Strictly speaking, such an æther-drift ought also to
EVI:Then:If we drop these hypotheses, then the dilemma of Section VII
EVI:Dropped:co-ordinates (_x, y, z_) which can be dropped from the scene of the
EVI:According:according to the rules of Euclidean geometry. Hence the imperfections
SEQ:Regards:Manner
SEQ:Intermediate:Empty
SEQ:Cause:Genesis
SEQ:Embankment:Thinkable
REL:Lengths:These
SEQ:Indicated:Above
EVI:Laws:innumerable laws which would serve the same purpose, without our being
SEQ:Redistribution:Subject
SEQ:Title:Relativity
SEQ:Logically:Rigid
EVI:Field:gravitational field. just then, however, he discovers the hook in the
EVI:Things:In gravitational fields there are no such things as rigid bodies with
CON:Hereupon
EVI:Equal:of the marble slab. When I say they are of equal length, I mean that
EVI:Straight:point, they draw “straight lines” (arcs of circles as judged in three
EVI:When:exactly the same manner in a gravitational field (_in vacuo_), when
SEQ:Time:Event
SEQ:Kind:Gravitational
EVI:Treating:of treating time as an independent continuum. As a matter of fact,
EVI:Then:radius of the disc) tangentially to the edge of the disc, then, as
EVI:Rods:squares made up of rods, _i.e._ its volume (surface) is infinite. If
EVI:Shall:to a second Galileian system we shall suppose that the corresponding
SEQ:Above:Mentioned
EVI:Straight:uniformly and in straight lines.
EVI:Criterion:the above definition), then the criterion for the simultaneity of the
EVI:Transformations:Minkowski found that the Lorentz transformations satisfy the following
REL:Uniformly:Such
SEQ:Local:Variations
SEQ:These:Points
EVI:Body:can imagine this reference-body supplemented laterally and in a
SEQ:Mass:Present
SEQ:Incongruity:Overcome
SEQ:Distance:Being
SEQ:Hypotheses:Formerly
EVI:Little:Since the publication of the first edition of this little book, our
SEQ:Start:Again
EVI:Case:_equivalent_ for the description of natural phenomena. In this case we
EVI:Itself:is nevertheless 1.7 seconds of arc. This ought to manifest itself in
EVI:Transformation:[9] A simple derivation of the Lorentz transformation is given in
REL:Rays:Light
SEQ:Most:Accurately
EVI:Donate:approach us with offers to donate.
EVI:Both:Both these hypotheses proved to be consistent, according to the general
EVI:Motion:state of motion. But before proceeding farther, it ought to be pointed
SEQ:Sitting:Alongside
SEQ:Least:Incompatibilitiy
EVI:Galilei:conditions required by the fundamental law of Galilei. It is then
EVI:Under:the part of the continuum under our notice.
SEQ:Possessing:Central
EVI:However:be obtained without caprice, however, by taking into consideration the
SEQ:Geometrical:Behaviour
SEQ:Just:Sufficient
EVI:Laws:(formulation of the general laws of nature), whatever may be their
CON:Taking
SEQ:Follows:Magnitude
EVI:Hold:Euclidean geometry hold for “distances;” the “distance” being
EVI:Geometry:which we may subject the body, the propositions of Euclidean geometry
EVI:Only:Apart from this one, it has hitherto been possible to make only two
EVI:Slab:slab, provided that the ends of one of our rods could be made to
SEQ:Other:Hand
REL:Structure:Matter
SEQ:Fact:Closed
CON:Created
SEQ:Some:What
EVI:Shift:the galactic line-shift discovered by Hubble as an expansion (which can
EVI:Only:also applicable to non-Euclidean continua, but only when, with respect
REL:Points:These
EVI:Borrowed:consideration which borrowed two unjustifiable hypotheses from
EVI:Foundation:Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.
EVI:Ordinates:co-ordinates completely replaces the description with the aid of a body
EVI:Also:classical mechanics. This theorem can also be deduced readily from the
EVI:Inertial:of inertial and gravitational mass; but it has also already explained a
EVI:Readily:classical mechanics. This theorem can also be deduced readily from the
SEQ:World:Euclidean
EVI:Without:States without permission and without paying copyright
EVI:Theory:experience which support the electromagnetic theory also support the
SEQ:Length:Embankment
CON:Consider
EVI:Gutenberg:THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
SEQ:Decides:Favour
EVI:Derivation:I. Simple Derivation of the Lorentz Transformation (supplementary to section XI)
SEQ:Axioms:Proven
EVI:Here:observations, and it is just here that the “truth” of the theory lies.
SEQ:Riemann:Points
SEQ:Travels:Along
SEQ:Suggest:Present
CON:Shape
EVI:Appears:which appears as though it must be decisive. Imagine two mirrors so
EVI:Whole:Part III: Considerations on the Universe as a Whole
EVI:When:_T_ (see the accompanying diagram, Fig. 3) when the liquid above
SEQ:View:Idea
SEQ:Legitimately:Truth
SEQ:Case:Wish
SEQ:Surface:Lake
CON:Another
EVI:Scattered:would necessarily be scattered under the influence of their mutual
SEQ:Discussion:Contained
CON:Foot
EVI:Attain:In order to attain the greatest possible clearness, let us return to
SEQ:Added:According
EVI:October:Release date: October 1, 2009 [eBook #30155]
REL:Able:Compare
SEQ:Variations:Laws
SEQ:Process:Studied
EVI:Similar:curvature being similar to that experienced by the path of a body which
EVI:Hold:statement will hold:
SEQ:Ordinates:Indefinite
CON:Closest
EVI:Uniform:States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
SEQ:Statement:Corresponds
EVI:Field:domains to _non-Galileian_ reference-bodies also. A gravitational field
CON:Degree
EVI:Riding:whilst he is riding on ahead of the beam of light coming from _A_.
SEQ:Between:Electrical
CON:Place
EVI:Coordinates:Adjacent points correspond to adjacent values of the coordinates. If a
REL:Falls:Earth
SEQ:Incompatability:Propagation
SEQ:Measurable:Well
CON:Province
EVI:Positions:and independently of the positions of the scenes of the events with
EVI:Velocity:basis of the law of the constancy of the velocity of light. But
SEQ:Freely:Moving
EVI:Also:interpretation is quite justified also from a physical point of view.
EVI:Consideration:find after some consideration that the answer to this question is not
SEQ:Become:Infinite
REL:Velocity:Propagation
REL:Velocity:Transmission
SEQ:Side:Agrees
SEQ:Reference:Time
EVI:Abscissa:represented with respect to the co-ordinate system _K_ by the abscissa
EVI:According:or, if we square this equation, according to the equation
SEQ:Point:Continuum
REL:Forces:Another
SEQ:Components:Observed
SEQ:Forwards:Retarded
EVI:Towards:(_c_) Displacement of Spectral Lines Towards the Red
SEQ:Relative:Then
EVI:Centre:ought to possess something of the nature of a centre. Of course we
EVI:After:to imagine—after the manner of Faraday—that the magnet always calls
SEQ:Creating:Derivative
CON:Days
SEQ:Only:Straight
EVI:Point:the mollusc is treated as a space-point, and every material point which
SEQ:Ideas:Special
SEQ:Light:Reaching
EVI:Theory:and in the special theory of relativity we therefore differentiate
EVI:Obtained:Thus we have obtained the Lorentz transformation for events on the
EVI:Measurements:and Bachem (Bonn), as a result of their own measurements and those of
SEQ:Schwarzschild:Cyanogen
SEQ:Inherent:Subject
EVI:Solution:THE SOLUTION OF THE PROBLEM OF GRAVITATION ON THE BASIS OF THE GENERAL
EVI:Domains:domains, _i.e._ to those in which no gravitational field exists. In
EVI:Redistributing:redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
EVI:Above:aid, since the above construction can no longer be carried out. But
SEQ:Condition:Body
SEQ:Than:Motion
CON:Newby
EVI:When:resulting when the motion is parallel to these planes. Although the
CON:Because
SEQ:Influences:Movement
SEQ:Direction:Form
SEQ:Imaginary:Magnitude
EVI:Amount:Mercury it must amount to 43 seconds of arc per century, a result which
EVI:Embankment:sent along the embankment, we see from the above that the tip of the
SEQ:Represented:Snapshot
EVI:Relative:_v_-curves, and thus also relative to the surface of the table. For the
SEQ:Method:Already
EVI:Velocity:here replaced by the velocity of light relative to the embankment. _w_
REL:Whereas:Course
SEQ:Should:Supplied
SEQ:Copy:Means
REL:Description:Events
EVI:Works:works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
EVI:Square:arrangement of the remaining two sides of the square is already
EVI:Case:continua. For example, this obviously holds in the case of the marble
SEQ:Properties:Propagation
SEQ:Towards:Beam
SEQ:Embankment:Just
CON:Motion
EVI:Takes:States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
SEQ:Then:Least
EVI:Field:field. Before proceeding farther, however, I must warn the reader
EVI:Inertial:the inertial mass of a body is not a constant but varies according to
SEQ:Being:Given
CON:Africa
SEQ:Little:Rods
CON:Perceives
SEQ:Important:Information
SEQ:Means:True
SEQ:Place:Straight
SEQ:Emitting:Light
EVI:Newton:In point of fact, astronomers have found that the theory of Newton does
SEQ:Impossible:Construct
EVI:Gutenberg:providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
SEQ:Means:Convention
SEQ:Case:Never
SEQ:Opponents:Theory
EVI:Rectilinear:of _uniform rectilinear and non-rotary motion_ with respect to _K_; all
SEQ:These:Numbers
SEQ:Gutenberg:Future
SEQ:Time:Mentioned
SEQ:Fundamental:Difficulty
CON:Adjustments
EVI:Ordinates:the position of defining Cartesian co-ordinates directly with their
SEQ:Analogously:Seek
SEQ:Accordance:Special
CON:Measurements
EVI:Xxii:XXII. A Few Inferences from the General Principle of Relativity
SEQ:High:Time
EVI:Principle:Finally, the general principle of relativity permits us to determine
EVI:Corresponding:one perhelion and the next should exceed that corresponding to one
SEQ:These:Those
SEQ:Fact:Systematic
REL:Michelson:Morley
SEQ:Other:Directions
SEQ:Assign:Exact
SEQ:Differing:Very
SEQ:Only:Moving
SEQ:Defined:Size
CON:Comprehensive
SEQ:Events:Care
EVI:Emitted:It is known that cathode rays and the so-called β-rays emitted by
CON:Calls
SEQ:Atom:Same
EVI:Than:I have chosen this as being more familiar to the English reader than
SEQ:Remain:Freely
EVI:Devoted:physicists were devoted to attempts to detect the existence of an
EVI:Tube:section. If we denote the velocity of the light relative to the tube by
SEQ:Propositions:Euclidean
SEQ:Surface:Only
EVI:Withheld:no pretence of having withheld from the reader difficulties which are
EVI:State:systems, we should have chosen _one_ (_K0_) of a particular state of
EVI:Using:the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
EVI:Four:to a “rotation” of the co-ordinate system in the four-dimensional
EVI:Geometry:exactly to the three space co-ordinates in Euclidean geometry. It must
SEQ:Satisfied:Transformation
REL:Simple:Direct
EVI:Gutenberg:the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
EVI:Space:in which the “world radius” depends on time (expanding space). In that
EVI:Rotation:rotation with regard to a Galileian system _K_, clocks of identical
EVI:Mechanics:variations from the laws of classical mechanics are too small to make
EVI:Regarded:were to be regarded as in motion with respect to the æther. To this
SEQ:Appears:Galileian
EVI:Should:theory rather requires that the universe should have a kind of centre
EVI:Comprehensive:in the comprehensive limitation which is imposed on the laws of nature
SEQ:Considering:First
EVI:Despite:Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
SEQ:Argument:General
EVI:Shown:rectilinearly with the velocity _c_. It can easily be shown that the
SEQ:Alteration:Energy
EVI:Never:perpetually passing out into infinite space, never to return, and
EVI:Applied:But the Gaussian method can be applied also to a continuum of three,
EVI:Vicinity:immediate vicinity (in space) of the event. In this manner a time-value
EVI:Formulates:by the earth.” Modern physics formulates the answer rather differently
EVI:Velocity:transmission. This is connected with the fact that the velocity _c_
EVI:Plane:In particular, the constructions of plane Euclidean geometry can be
SEQ:Favour:Theory
EVI:Demanded:existence of the deflection of light demanded by theory was first
EVI:Have:fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
SEQ:Distance:Judged
EVI:Then:following. If at any moment three squares meet at a corner, then two
EVI:Situation:rather admit that his mode of grasping the situation violates neither
CON:Merits
EVI:Replace:as compared with 1, we can replace (B) in the first place by
EVI:Constructed:To start with, he places one of two identically constructed clocks at
EVI:Recorded:It is true that this important law had hitherto been recorded in
SEQ:Axioms:Call
SEQ:Pglaf:Owns
SEQ:Least:Diminish
EVI:Term:we see that the term _mc_2, which has hitherto attracted our attention,
SEQ:Derived:Texts
EVI:Systems:system “absolutely at rest,” and all other Galileian systems _K_ “in
SEQ:Very:Much
REL:Arguments:Favour
EVI:Have:point, we thus have a (uni-dimensional) line in the four-dimensional
EVI:Payments:ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
EVI:Planet:the sun and the planet. In such a system, the sun, or the common centre
SEQ:Sitting:Position
EVI:Question:find after some consideration that the answer to this question is not
EVI:Celestial:celestial body).
SEQ:Continuously:Emits
CON:Possessing
CON:Modification
CON:Obtain
CON:Probable
REL:Kind:Motion
SEQ:Experience:Being
EVI:Displacement:_M_ is the mass of the heavenly body. Thus a displacement towards the
CON:Confused
EVI:These:directly with the reality. But, on the other hand, these results must
SEQ:Result:Interpreted
SEQ:Continuous:Process
SEQ:Near:Disc
SEQ:Appertaining:Them
EVI:Uniformly:uniformly in a straight line. With reference to K (Galileian
EVI:Square:life. If I analyse the place specification “Trafalgar Square,
EVI:Place:law, the motion would still take place in such a manner that the
EVI:Pointed:state of motion. But before proceeding farther, it ought to be pointed
EVI:Theory:accordance with the special theory of relativity, certain co-ordinate
CON:Disregard
SEQ:Respect:Found
EVI:Conclude:case. We can only conclude that the special theory of relativity cannot
SEQ:Also:Obtain
EVI:Information:This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
SEQ:Uniting:These
EVI:Kind:the law of motion is of any kind, however irregular, serve for the
SEQ:Clear:What
CON:Astronomer
EVI:Physical:copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
EVI:Variation:slab of the table and local variation of temperature. The temperature
EVI:Prominently:prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
EVI:Time:seconds, _i.e._ a somewhat larger time. As a consequence of its motion
SEQ:Laws:Provided
EVI:Body:co-ordinates completely replaces the description with the aid of a body
REL:Access:Other
EVI:Constant:Now φ = – _K (M/r)_, where _K_ is Newton’s constant of gravitation, and
SEQ:Other:Reference
EVI:Mirrors:is moving perpendicularly to the planes of the mirrors from that
SEQ:Observer:Train
EVI:Century:of arc per century. The uncertainty of the empirical result amounts to
EVI:Three:straight line. Three points _A, B_ and _C_ on a rigid body thus lie in
SEQ:Should:Retain
EVI:Consideration:here apply the consideration of the previous section, since the ray of
EVI:Constrained:the iron through the intermediate empty space, but we are constrained
EVI:Placed:must be placed on a new basis. It can only be got rid of by means of a
EVI:Derived:In Section VI we derived the theorem of the addition of velocities in
SEQ:Call:Such
SEQ:Worldsphere:Other
REL:Effect:Exciting
EVI:Relativity:XX. The Equality of Inertial and Gravitational Mass as an Argument for the General Postulate of Relativity
EVI:Indicates:is fulfilled in general, where λ indicates a constant; for, according
EVI:Body:curvature being similar to that experienced by the path of a body which
EVI:Decided:question with a decided “Yes.” But if I now approach you with the
EVI:Person:of bodies relative to the person in the railway carriage. The
EVI:Axis:expression _a_ represents the major semi-axis of the ellipse, _e_ its
SEQ:Discrepancies:Expected
EVI:Cloud:(_c_) We speak of the height of the cloud even when the pole which
EVI:Rays:If we apply quite similar considerations to light rays which are being
SEQ:Regards:Deductions
CON:Given
EVI:Observations:his observations. What will be his experience in this enterprise?
SEQ:Changing:Over
SEQ:Surfaces:Lengths
CON:Especial
SEQ:Velocity:Absorbs
EVI:Equations:equations of transformation, for the magnitudes _z, y, x, t_, are
EVI:Relativity:the _special_ principle of relativity, or special theory of relativity.
EVI:Ourselves:ourselves from the distasteful conception that the material universe
EVI:System:fundamental assumptions, the so-called axioms. We call such a system of
EVI:Person:But no person whose mode of thought is logical can rest satisfied with
EVI:Embankment:embankment. How are we to find the place and time of an event in
EVI:Reference:of designated points of reference.
SEQ:Independent:Hypotheses
EVI:Space:travel through space, we should find everywhere an attenuated swarm of
SEQ:Shall:Prepare
EVI:Used:used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
EVI:Light:light plays the part of the man walking along relatively to the
SEQ:Broad:Basis
SEQ:Same:Regards
SEQ:Fundamental:Idea
CON:Rectangular
SEQ:Remains:Permanently
SEQ:Body:Alters
SEQ:Dimensional:Existence
REL:Possible:Space
EVI:Continua:mathematical treatment of continua in general, in which
SEQ:Ebooks:Only
SEQ:Certainly:Have
CON:Xxiv
EVI:Nature:nature. Such a finite material universe would be destined to become
EVI:Believes:the right when he believes that a general law of gravitation can be
EVI:Electrons:motions only in the case of electrons and ions; for other motions the
EVI:True:meaning. We cannot ask whether it is true that only one straight line
EVI:Galileian:called a “Galileian system of co-ordinates.” The laws of the mechanics
SEQ:October:Ebook
EVI:Applies:presents insurmountable difficulties. If the observer applies his
SEQ:Earth:Amount
EVI:Amount:orbital ellipse was 43 seconds of arc per century, an amount ensured to
EVI:Rigid:practically rigid body is something which is lodged deeply in our habit
EVI:Less:nothing more nor less than the results of measurements obtainable by
SEQ:Produces:Field
EVI:Bodies:individual events relative to both reference-bodies, such that every
CON:Moderate
SEQ:Quotient:Familiar
SEQ:Instead:Plane
CON:Network
SEQ:Respect:Statement
EVI:Conceptions:result of an analysis of the physical conceptions of time and space, it
EVI:Straight:believes he knows, that this propagation takes place in straight lines
EVI:Some:explanation; of course it would require some consideration if I were to
EVI:Since:since this time.
SEQ:Hold:Continuum
EVI:Right:right-hand side.
EVI:Does:“If we pick up a stone and then let it go, why does it fall to the
SEQ:Rate:Clock
SEQ:Second:Galileian
EVI:Moving:freely-moving material points continues to take place according to the
SEQ:Results:Previous
EVI:Specific:a specific illustration in Section XXIII, we found that the presence of
SEQ:Section:Namely
SEQ:Relativity:Does
EVI:Therefore:relativity must therefore apply with great accuracy in the domain of
EVI:Approximately:and other appreciable masses, that we have before us approximately the
SEQ:Description:Body
EVI:Electronic:electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
EVI:Theory:undergone by the fundamental idea of the general theory of relativity
EVI:Consist:radioactive substances consist of negatively electrified particles
EVI:Something:only says something about the motion of the bodies, but it also
SEQ:Words:Point
EVI:Relatively:the carriage, we introduce a point moving relatively to the co-ordinate
EVI:Rods:the use of divided measuring-rods, the introduction of which does not
EVI:Relativity:case. We can only conclude that the special theory of relativity cannot
EVI:Squares:these squares until finally the whole marble slab is laid out with
EVI:Transmission:this question of such a nature that the law of transmission of light
EVI:Steam:neither case, and if I observe that the one continuously emits steam
EVI:Euclidean:to the method of Riemann of treating multi-dimensional, non-Euclidean
SEQ:Real:Case
EVI:Deviations:the calculated deviations of the stars (in seconds of arc) are set
EVI:Also:chosen so that they are spatially parallel to those of _K_. It is also
EVI:Space:I further want to remark that the theory of expanding space, together
EVI:Field:a gravitational field _G_ (of a particular kind). We learn the
EVI:Replacement:any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
EVI:Obtained:formulate the general laws of nature as they are obtained from
EVI:Require:abscissa _x′_ and the time _t′_. We require to find _x′_ and _t′_ when
EVI:Significance:co-ordinates have no significance? More careful consideration shows,
REL:Archive:Online
EVI:Axis:would be different from that emitted if the axis of the pipe were
EVI:Gravitation:transmission of electromagnetic waves. The effects of gravitation also
CON:Intervention
CON:Newsletter
EVI:Truth:still we must grant it a considerable measure of “truth,” since it
SEQ:Introduce:Latter
SEQ:Does:Contradict
SEQ:Second:Dimensional
CON:Abstract
EVI:Galileian:possible to choose a Galileian reference-body for this part of space
CON:Advances
EVI:Clocks:BEHAVIOUR OF CLOCKS AND MEASURING-RODS ON A ROTATING BODY OF REFERENCE
EVI:System:II. The System of Co-ordinates
EVI:Method:reference-bodies, in the sense of the method followed in the special
EVI:Gutenberg:1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
CON:Matter
CON:Movement
SEQ:Unique:Possessing
EVI:Including:OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
EVI:Other:system “absolutely at rest,” and all other Galileian systems _K_ “in
EVI:Rapid:part, however, this modification affects only the laws for rapid
CON:Michelson
CON:Divided
EVI:Galileian:Galileian law of the uniform rectilinear motion of “isolated” material
EVI:Foundation:The Foundation’s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
SEQ:English:Reader
SEQ:First:Published
EVI:Reference:body of reference. The following statement corresponds to the
EVI:Relative:are in a position to say: The stone traverses a straight line relative
EVI:Clearly:payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
EVI:Points:of thought. We are accustomed further to regard three points as being
EVI:Reference:between reference-bodies _K_ relative to which the recognised “laws of
SEQ:Place:Refers
SEQ:Motion:Mercury
EVI:System:Planets of our solar system its magnitude should be so small that it
SEQ:Equal:Numerically
SEQ:First:Part
SEQ:Everywhere:Present
EVI:Work:prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
CON:Edge
SEQ:Systematically:Impoverished
CON:Descend
SEQ:Section:Xxiii
SEQ:Provide:Volunteers
SEQ:Points:Worldsphere
SEQ:Described:Line
EVI:Alluded:The second class of facts to which we have alluded has reference to the
SEQ:Field:Force
EVI:Every:velocity _v_ to be continued across the whole of space, so that every
EVI:Bounds:volume), and has no bounds.
SEQ:Body:Relative
SEQ:More:Familiar
EVI:Said:But from what has been said, the two snapshots must be identical; hence
CON:Represent
SEQ:Davidson:Order
SEQ:Used:Once
EVI:Depends:radius _r_ depends on _r_, but for a given value of _r_ it is the same
EVI:Arbitrary:continuum in an arbitrary manner to Gauss co-ordinates. We assign to
CON:Denote
EVI:Gutenberg:assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™’s
SEQ:Stone:Traverses
SEQ:Defect:Mention
SEQ:Stars:Should
SEQ:Both:Paragraphs
CON:Freely
EVI:Century:orbital ellipse was 43 seconds of arc per century, an amount ensured to
REL:Temptation:Venture
SEQ:Then:Every
SEQ:Prominently:Displaying
SEQ:Rather:Admit
SEQ:System:Relative
EVI:Mechanics:then these general laws of nature (_e.g._ the laws of mechanics or the
SEQ:Nature:Pass
EVI:However:the average everywhere the same. In other words: However far we might
SEQ:Density:Matter
SEQ:Generations:Learn
EVI:Individual:statements of a large number of individual observations in the form of
EVI:Regarded:universe, considered as a whole, is to be regarded, the first answer
EVI:Without:without further opportunities to fix the problem.
SEQ:Appreciably:Altered
SEQ:Earth:Stone
EVI:Uniformly:together with the earth moves non-uniformly in such a manner that their
EVI:Reference:one body of reference to another.
EVI:Motion:fields, we can study the law of motion of these particles very exactly.
SEQ:Fields:Study
SEQ:Reference:Vanishes
EVI:Manner:rod in common with the first. We proceed in like manner with each of
SEQ:Significance:Only
EVI:Amongst:condition that, from amongst all possible Galileian co-ordinate
EVI:Choose:equally well choose the carriage or the embankment as our
SEQ:Thus:Arrive
EVI:Carriage:the ray of light relative to the carriage. It is obvious that we can
SEQ:Metre:Axis
SEQ:Hypothesis:Space
SEQ:Anyone:Stands
SEQ:Purchase:Emancipation
EVI:Relativity:XXVII. The Space-Time Continuum of the General Theory of Relativity is Not a Euclidean Continuum
SEQ:Stand:Ground
EVI:Question:question as to how the energy of a point-mass; depends on the velocity.
EVI:Four:four-dimensional points.
EVI:Stars:sun that the stars situated near the sun’s disc are invisible. The
SEQ:Satisfy:Following
EVI:Must:of the surface one and only one curve must pass. Thus a perfectly
EVI:Agreement:TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
EVI:Themselves:nature; the laws themselves must be quite independent of the choice of
EVI:Reconciled:become reconciled to this negative result, for reasons now to be
EVI:Form:formulation. The form there used, “All bodies of reference _K, K′_,
SEQ:Apparatus:Gravitation
SEQ:Definite:Time
EVI:Himself:doing this. The force acting on himself, and in fact on all other
EVI:Employed:expresses the theorem of the addition of velocities employed in
SEQ:Positions:Relative
EVI:Right:the right when he believes that a general law of gravitation can be
CON:Applied
SEQ:Dark:Neighbour
EVI:Them:railway-carriage window is holding one of them, and the man on the
EVI:Number:number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
EVI:Physically:into being something physically real in the space around it, that
SEQ:Inferences:General
EVI:Stone:his own reference-body occupied by the stone at each tick of the clock
EVI:Special:XXVI. The Space-Time Continuum of the Special Theory of Relativity Considered as a Euclidean Continuum
SEQ:Observer:Placed
EVI:Space:question whether or not the motion of the earth in space can be made
EVI:Those:event to those three plane surfaces. The lengths of these three
CON:Existing
EVI:Velocity:direction of its length with a velocity _v_ is
EVI:Decide:“reference-body” and derivable from them; only _experience_ can decide
EVI:Accelerated:mass. If this natural law did not exist, the man in the accelerated
SEQ:Iron:Cannot
SEQ:Directly:Reality
EVI:Specification:body to which the specification of place refers; “Trafalgar Square,
SEQ:Laid:Full
EVI:Corner:other corner of a square with reference to this origin by means of two
EVI:Existing:existing trajectory (lit. “path-curve”[6], but only a trajectory
EVI:Everywhere:matter everywhere; it would present to us that unsatisfactory picture
SEQ:Objects:Nature
SEQ:Transformation:Differing
EVI:Space:require to extend our ideas of the space-time continuum still farther.
EVI:Einstein:http://www.marxists.org/reference/archive/einstein/index.htm
EVI:Mechanics:III. Space and Time in Classical Mechanics
SEQ:Portrayed:Section
SEQ:Sufficiently:Obvious
REL:Agree:Abide
SEQ:Relative:Relative
EVI:Discussion:and _b_ were known. These result from the following discussion.
EVI:Statement:statement will hold:
SEQ:Time:Thus
SEQ:Trademark:License
CON:Hovering
SEQ:Accordance:Theory
CON:Tension
EVI:Order:In order to escape this dilemma, Seeliger suggested a modification of
SEQ:Imaginary:Time
SEQ:Character:Times
EVI:Relativity:_in vacuo_ does not contradict the principle of relativity? In other
CON:London
SEQ:Whether:Finite
SEQ:Provided:Paragraph
EVI:Later:out that this formulation must be replaced later by a more abstract
EVI:Geometry:position of practically rigid bodies.[1] Geometry which has been
CON:Liquid
EVI:Influence:the same way_ as regards the influence of temperature when they are on
EVI:Geometrical:express this by saying that by the “truth” of a geometrical proposition
EVI:Same:path of the same ray of light is no longer a straight line when we
EVI:Light:the ray of light relative to the carriage. It is obvious that we can
SEQ:Have:United
SEQ:Likewise:Characteristic
SEQ:Note:Fifth
SEQ:Incompatible:Most
EVI:Respect:respect to the body of reference chosen in the particular case in
SEQ:Includes:Information
CON:Planes
EVI:Attention:we see that the term _mc_2, which has hitherto attracted our attention,
SEQ:Though:Means
SEQ:Light:Propagated
SEQ:Independent:Continuum
EVI:Investigations:relativity,” which we have taken as the basis of our investigations.
EVI:Objects:to objects of experience, but only with the logical connection of these
EVI:Encounters:statements about their encounters. In our mathematical treatment, such
EVI:Corresponding:exactness corresponding to that of the delicacy of observation
EVI:Form:most intelligible form, and on the whole, in the sequence and
EVI:Question:direction according to the theory of relativity. The question now
EVI:Section:rotation. According to a result obtained in Section XII, it follows
EVI:Symmetry:curved universe possessing central symmetry.
EVI:Embankment:If every ray of light is propagated relative to the embankment with the
EVI:Promotion:production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
EVI:Somewhat:minimum. If instead of Newton’s law we insert a somewhat different law
SEQ:Affords:Insufficient
EVI:Obtained:The same value _v_ can be obtained from equations (5), if we calculate
EVI:Moving:is moving perpendicularly to the planes of the mirrors from that
SEQ:Ought:Obtain
SEQ:Work:Alteration
EVI:Method:But the Gaussian method can be applied also to a continuum of three,
SEQ:Careful:Study
SEQ:Assumption:Whereas
SEQ:Realised:Most
SEQ:Relative:Velocity
EVI:Ebooks:Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
EVI:Gaussian:each other. Here the Gaussian coordinates are simply Cartesian ones. It
EVI:Definition:the following objection: “Your definition would certainly be right, if
EVI:Respect:relative to _K_ with a velocity _v_, but at rest with respect to the
EVI:Points:points which can claim a physical existence are in reality the
SEQ:Grasp:Work
EVI:Treat:nature of the universe as a whole, if we treat the matter as being at
EVI:Gutenberg:agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
SEQ:Occupies:Only
EVI:Money:receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
SEQ:Very:Slightly
SEQ:Valid:Also
EVI:Electrodynamics:contained in electrodynamics as a limiting case; the laws of the latter
EVI:Reference:these bodies of reference are to be regarded as Galileian
EVI:Justification:justification in the fact that, of all closed surfaces, the sphere is
SEQ:Paid:Work
EVI:Present:attainable at the present time. After taking account of all the
EVI:Otherwise:examination of the correctness or otherwise of this deduction is a
EVI:Exist:“simultaneous” plays a part. The concept does not exist for the
SEQ:Express:Saying
CON:Financial
EVI:Transmission:the law of transmission of light for all Galileian systems of
EVI:Transmitted:of the chest will be transmitted to him by the reaction of the floor of
SEQ:Course:Planet
CON:Recognition
EVI:Example:(embankment) it describes a parabola. With the aid of this example it
EVI:Ordinates:co-ordinates (_x, y, z_) which can be dropped from the scene of the
CON:Certainly
EVI:States:are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws
SEQ:Empirical:Result
SEQ:Interpretation:Rests
EVI:Point:a material point with any kind of motion. If this point had only a
EVI:Search:Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
EVI:Removed:We imagine a large portion of empty space, so far removed from stars
SEQ:Correspond:Same
EVI:General:equations which express the general laws of nature pass over into
CON:Solid
EVI:Philosophical:general scientific and philosophical point of view, are interested in
EVI:Ordinate:_K_ = co-ordinate system
SEQ:Calculation:Possible
CON:Tacit
CON:Posted
EVI:Generalisation:We advance a step farther in our generalisation when we express the
EVI:Synonymous:Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
EVI:Masses:each other, the negative electrical masses constituting the electron
SEQ:Laws:Your
SEQ:Relativity:Supplied
EVI:Those:whether these propositions are satisfied for those real things we have
SEQ:Formal:Points
EVI:Being:of thought. We are accustomed further to regard three points as being
EVI:Following:Aided by the following illustration, we can readily see that, in
CON:Express
EVI:Matter:It is a different matter when the distance has to be judged from the
EVI:Used:we require a “distance” (rod _S_) which is to be used once and for all,
EVI:Obtain:the one by the other, he will not obtain as quotient the familiar
SEQ:Given:Surface
CON:Position
EVI:Euclidean:geometry. The surface is not a Euclidean continuum with respect to the
SEQ:Making:Theoretical
SEQ:Refer:Process
EVI:Whatsoever:whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
CON:Covers
EVI:Method:We can sum this up as follows: Gauss invented a method for the
EVI:Section:previous section the answer is self-evident. In the first place we
CON:Mention
EVI:Axis:According to the general theory of relativity, the major axis of the
REL:Province:Biology
CON:Parabolic
EVI:Reader:exactly. I shall prepare the reader for this in the following
EVI:Velocity:influence of the velocity of flow _v_ on the propagation of light is
SEQ:Advance:Relative
EVI:State:DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state
EVI:Origin:We suppose a light-signal sent out from the origin of _K_ at the time
EVI:Follows:as follows: The special theory of relativity has reference to Galileian
SEQ:Itself:Point
SEQ:Quite:Independent
EVI:Sentence:1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
SEQ:Gutenberg:Depends
EVI:Ordinates:IV. The Galileian System of Co-ordinates
EVI:Same:with the same velocity _w with respect to the liquid_, whether the
EVI:Ordinate:co-ordinate system _K′_, and finally, the light plays the part of the
SEQ:Development:Theory
EVI:Geometrical:three-dimensional continuum of Euclidean geometrical space.[14] In
EVI:Always:always possible. It is only possible when sufficiently small regions of
EVI:These:requires that all these molluscs can be used as reference-bodies with
SEQ:Colours:Because
CON:Exceeds
EVI:Public:increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
SEQ:Surface:Means
SEQ:Introduce:Point
REL:Position:Replace
SEQ:Following:Reason
EVI:Equations:This system of equations is often termed the “Galilei transformation.”
SEQ:Remain:Rest
SEQ:Induction:Theories
EVI:Moving:the flying raven from the moving railway carriage. we should find that
REL:Order:Show
SEQ:Motion:Bodies
REL:Never:Return
SEQ:Format:Used
SEQ:Through:Distance
EVI:Solicit:with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
EVI:Practically:practically rigid body is something which is lodged deeply in our habit
REL:Results:Experience
EVI:London:London” is a well-defined point, to which a name has been assigned, and
EVI:Formulation:for the formulation of natural laws, provided that they are in a state
SEQ:Light:Have
SEQ:Mass:Must
EVI:Body:BEHAVIOUR OF CLOCKS AND MEASURING-RODS ON A ROTATING BODY OF REFERENCE
EVI:Than:country other than the United States.
CON:Undoubtedly
EVI:Drift:æther-drift at the earth’s surface.
SEQ:Donations:Received
REL:Alteration:Velocity
SEQ:World:Point
EVI:Ebooks:distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
EVI:Thus:1 when measured in the _K′_ system are thus separated in our
SEQ:Reference:Body
REL:Fees:Meet
CON:Performs
SEQ:Foundation:Help
EVI:Open:It is an open question whether or not this effect exists, and at the
SEQ:Warranty:Disclaimer
EVI:Where:If we confine the application of the theory to the case where the
REL:Eclipse:Because
EVI:Electrodynamics:the more recent development of electrodynamics and optics it became
EVI:Same:produced in an analogous manner terrestrially (_i.e._ by the same kind
EVI:Transformation:equations of transformation, for the magnitudes _z, y, x, t_, are
SEQ:Increased:Amount
EVI:Have:where the magnitudes _g_11, etc., have values which vary with the
EVI:Consequence:satisfies equation (11) for σ = 1; for (11) is a consequence of (8_a_)
EVI:Velocity:of rays of light can only take place when the velocity of propagation
EVI:Consideration:a little consideration.
SEQ:Continuum:Theory
EVI:Theories:extent. But as regards the deductions from the theories which are
EVI:Else:coincide with these two points; for how else should we define the
SEQ:Rods:Rotating
EVI:Time:specify how the body alters its position _with time; i.e._ for every
EVI:Favour:is very powerful argument in favour of the principle of relativity.
EVI:Events:pair of events _A, C_ is also satisfied. This assumption is a physical
EVI:Mollusc:the mollusc is treated as a space-point, and every material point which
SEQ:Effort:Identify
SEQ:Attached:Earth
EVI:Dimensional:“world” by Minkowski is naturally four dimensional in the space-time
SEQ:Apparent:Position
EVI:Latter:Maxwell-Lorentz theory so plausible, that the latter would have been
CON:Associate
EVI:Regardless:is always only an _apparent_ one. We might also think that, regardless
SEQ:Circumference:Circle
EVI:Whether:arises for astronomers and physicists, and that is whether the universe
EVI:Application:carriage experiences a jerk forwards as a result of the application of
SEQ:Damages:Costs
SEQ:Tailor:Cobbler
EVI:Relative:relative motions of the fixed stars with respect to the earth on the
CON:Paper
SEQ:Circle:Continues
SEQ:Your:State
REL:Existence:Marked
SEQ:Specially:Marked
EVI:Points:measuring-rods, clocks and material points under the influence of the
EVI:Euclidean:according to the rules of Euclidean geometry. Hence the imperfections
SEQ:Body:Light
SEQ:State:Mississippi
SEQ:Determine:Position
SEQ:Ordinate:Time
SEQ:Investigation:Laws
EVI:Events:“time-distance ” of the same events with respect to _K_. But the
SEQ:Small:Make
SEQ:Framework:Imagine
EVI:Because:because by the word “true” we are eventually in the habit of
EVI:Field:of importance for its effect in exciting a field.
SEQ:Space:Stand
EVI:Should:with such exactness in one domain of phenomena, and yet should be
EVI:Ordinates:co-ordinates,” which is a useful idea for mathematical description, we
EVI:Very:fields, we can study the law of motion of these particles very exactly.
EVI:Determined:which is determined by the arrangement of little rods.
EVI:Contrary:If, on the contrary, we had considered a metre-rod at rest in the
SEQ:Here:Apply
EVI:Other:body.” On the other hand, an observer who is poised freely in space
EVI:Solar:Planets of our solar system its magnitude should be so small that it
SEQ:Relative:Hypothetical
EVI:Preceding:followed the preceding discussion are almost sure to expect that we
SEQ:Study:Displacement
EVI:Theory:the theory of relativity, and the agreement is, indeed, very exact.
SEQ:Forth:Following
CON:Demanded
EVI:Since:propositions interpreted in this way, since we are justified in asking
EVI:Motion:no avail in the general theory of relativity. The motion of clocks is
SEQ:Them:Nothing
EVI:Respect:manner. What are the values _x′, y′, z′, t′_, of an event with respect
EVI:General:important idea contributed by Minkowski. Without it the general theory
EVI:Distance:somewhat greater distance from the centre of the sun than corresponds
EVI:Recent:According to recent and most excellent measurements by Zeeman, the
EVI:Time:the same time. If the observer perceives the two flashes of lightning
SEQ:Reflecting:Surfaces
SEQ:Under:Agreement
REL:Position:Practically
SEQ:Received:Work
EVI:Must:are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
EVI:Want:I further want to remark that the theory of expanding space, together
SEQ:Means:Optical
SEQ:Numbers:Ordinates
EVI:Body:encounters of the body with clocks, in conjunction with the observation
EVI:Results:rigid rods, but by indirect means. If the results of physics and
CON:Curves
SEQ:Nearly:Individual
SEQ:Time:Behaviour
EVI:Compatible:law of the propagation of light _in vacuo_ may be compatible with the
EVI:Gravitational:gravitational fields can be regarded as being weak, and in which all
EVI:Finally:Finally, the general principle of relativity permits us to determine
SEQ:Mechanics:Theorem
EVI:Invented:We can sum this up as follows: Gauss invented a method for the
EVI:Imagine:(2π2_R_3). Is it possible to imagine a spherical space? To imagine a
EVI:Detail:delicacy of detail little short of wonderful. The principle of
EVI:Surface:of two sets of numbers with the points of the surface considered, of
EVI:Gutenberg:access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
CON:Acquired
EVI:Necessarily:necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
EVI:Gravitational:_G_ = gravitational field
SEQ:Ordinates:Times
REL:Science:Emerged
EVI:Complex:Corresponding to the same complex of empirical data, there may be
EVI:Upon:of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
SEQ:Come:Certain
EVI:Supplementary:(SUPPLEMENTARY TO SECTION XI)
SEQ:During:Period
EVI:Room:room of a home on our earth. If he releases a body which he previously
EVI:Experimental:This result admits of an experimental test by means of the photographic
CON:Measuring
EVI:Many:to many points in motion. The only statements having regard to these
SEQ:Embankment:Without
CON:Involved
EVI:Precisely:request to explain to me the sense of the statement more precisely, you
SEQ:Ordinates:Useful
CON:Axioms
EVI:Rods:slab, provided that the ends of one of our rods could be made to
EVI:Respect:with respect to the railway embankment? Is there a thinkable answer to
EVI:Stars:outwards from this centre the group-density of the stars should
SEQ:Self:Evident
SEQ:Different:Form
SEQ:Referred:Supplemented
EVI:Regard:the disc may regard his disc as a reference-body which is “at rest”; on
SEQ:Gutenberg:Agree
EVI:Body:is independent of the choice of the body of reference. We call the
EVI:Appendix:confirmed during the solar eclipse of 29th May, 1919. (Cf. Appendix
CON:Special
EVI:Volunteers:1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
EVI:Find:order to find out the general law-of-field of gravitation we still
EVI:Chosen:field will of course depend on the motion chosen for _K′._ According to
EVI:Able:chest would not be able to interpret the behaviour of the bodies around
EVI:Advantageous:From this consideration we see that it will be advantageous if, in the
EVI:Points:points holds relatively to it.
EVI:Pretence:no pretence of having withheld from the reader difficulties which are
EVI:While:existence of the effect almost beyond doubt, while other investigators,
REL:Number:Other
EVI:Kind:But if rods of every kind (_i.e._ of every material) were to behave _in
CON:Slower
EVI:Project:that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
CON:Circumstance
EVI:Reason:velocity _c_, then for this reason it would appear that another law of
CON:Depends
EVI:Dimensional:to a “rotation” of the co-ordinate system in the four-dimensional
EVI:Every:specify how the body alters its position _with time; i.e._ for every
EVI:Inverse:from the inverse square law. In this way it is possible for the mean
EVI:Intelligible:form, which renders it yet more clearly intelligible than it is when in
SEQ:Science:Continuous
EVI:Terms:by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person
CON:Down
EVI:Time:SPACE AND TIME IN CLASSICAL MECHANICS
SEQ:Bring:Some
EVI:Paragraph:agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
SEQ:Finite:Volume
EVI:Habit:practically rigid body is something which is lodged deeply in our habit
EVI:Marked:K′_ is unique (lit. “specially marked out”) as compared with the other.
EVI:Curvilinearly:propagated curvilinearly in gravitational fields._ In two respects this
EVI:Agree:agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
EVI:Holder:copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
EVI:Next:one can be laid on any other without the ends overlapping. We next lay
SEQ:Flashes:Occurred
EVI:Theory:seen that the general theory of relativity enables us to derive
SEQ:Time:Domains
SEQ:Quite:Similar
EVI:Gutenberg:on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
SEQ:Expression:Represents
CON:Fees
SEQ:Place:Such
SEQ:Several:Theories
EVI:Force:experiences a downward force in the gravitational field, and this is
CON:Acting
SEQ:Reference:Following
SEQ:Determined:Series
EVI:Phrase:phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
EVI:Perceptible:perceptible in terrestrial experiments. We have already remarked in
SEQ:Motion:Then
EVI:Each:two squares and each corner to four squares.
EVI:Transformation:transformation thus:
EVI:Such:refer such a domain to a reference-body _K′_ possessing any kind of
EVI:Amongst:are conceivable. From amongst these, the spherical space (and the
SEQ:Have:Come
EVI:What:general principle of relativity. But in what follows we shall soon see
SEQ:Influences:Process
EVI:Laws:concerns the investigation of the laws satisfied by the gravitational
EVI:Bands:Evershed and Schwarzschild on the cyanogen bands, have placed the
EVI:Manner:through the air in such a manner that its motion, as observed from the
REL:Small:Comparison
REL:Want:Remark
SEQ:Planes:Ordinate
CON:Alluded
CON:Tenable
EVI:Thus:can thus as a rough approximation arrive at a conclusion as to the
EVI:Completely:co-ordinates completely replaces the description with the aid of a body
EVI:Understand:electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
EVI:Supplies:this way, so that our consideration supplies us with nothing
EVI:Measuring:measures the interval by marking off his measuring-rod in a straight
EVI:Thus:and the action of the other planets under consideration. Thus, if we
REL:Considerations:Light
EVI:Distances:different distances from the centre of the disc. This result is also
SEQ:Star:Practically
SEQ:Also:General
CON:Density
EVI:Special:SPECIAL AND GENERAL PRINCIPLE OF RELATIVITY
SEQ:Chest:Transmitted
EVI:Perceives:the same time. If the observer perceives the two flashes of lightning
SEQ:Chest:Does
EVI:Rigidly:to a system of co-ordinates rigidly attached to the carriage, but
SEQ:Referred:Cannot
SEQ:Sufficient:Clearness
EVI:Transformation:transformation give for these two ticks:
SEQ:Logically:Small
EVI:Both:Fig. 2, the _x_-axes of both systems permanently coincide. In the
SEQ:Rods:Central
EVI:Relative:of the disc is in motion relative to _K_ in consequence of the
EVI:Relativity:VII. The Apparent Incompatability of the Law of Propagation of Light with the Principle of Relativity
EVI:Problem:Obviously our problem can be exactly formulated in the following
EVI:Optics:the more recent development of electrodynamics and optics it became
SEQ:Contrary:Assumed
EVI:Foundation:trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
EVI:Have:apart. We already know that it is necessary to have a body of reference
SEQ:When:Believes
EVI:Bodies:the surface of rigid bodies, and is dependent on the existence of
SEQ:Methods:Laid
EVI:Powerful:occupant of the carriage experiences a correspondingly powerful jerk
SEQ:Determine:Corresponding
CON:Forest
SEQ:Shown:Calculation
EVI:Same:the same spectral lines when they are produced by a terrestrial source
SEQ:Calculation:Deviations
EVI:Archive:ALBERT EINSTEIN REFERENCE ARCHIVE
EVI:Point:interpretation is quite justified also from a physical point of view.
SEQ:Emitted:Earlier
EVI:Also:event, no matter how far off it may be, could also be localised with
EVI:Abstract:Expressed in an abstract manner we may say: If a mass _m_ is moving
EVI:Separated:From this we conclude that two points on the _x_-axis separated by the
EVI:Events:At all events, a definite decision will be reached during the next few
SEQ:Considered:Only
EVI:Relativity:general postulate of relativity (Section XXIII).
CON:Unenforceability
EVI:Represents:expression _a_ represents the major semi-axis of the ellipse, _e_ its
EVI:Comparison:question, I shall make use of a comparison.
CON:Berlin
REL:Disposal:Practice
EVI:Railway:railway-carriage window is holding one of them, and the man on the
EVI:Plain:other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
SEQ:Other:Appreciable
SEQ:Appear:Displaced
EVI:Order:for this preference?_” In order to show clearly what I mean by this
SEQ:Alone:Considered
EVI:What:lie “in reality” on a straight line or on a parabola? Moreover, what is
SEQ:Further:Convince
SEQ:Same:Origin
EVI:Make:of elegance ought to be left to the tailor and to the cobbler. I make
SEQ:Reference:Another
SEQ:Grant:Kind
EVI:Free:measuring-rods, are free to move in a _plane_. For them nothing exists
REL:Once:Possession
SEQ:Derived:Galileian
EVI:Value:XIV. The Heuristic Value of the Theory of Relativity
EVI:Must:appearance, practically all of which must nevertheless escape the test
SEQ:Able:Adjust
SEQ:Then:Present
EVI:Uniformly:then it will also be moving uniformly and in a straight line relative
SEQ:Fees:Arise
EVI:Become:surface would ultimately become infinite with increasing radius _R_ of
SEQ:Moving:Carriage
EVI:Cosmological:hypothesis (1) without introducing the less natural cosmological term
SEQ:Makes:Appear
EVI:Empirical:empirical laws, from which the general laws can be ascertained by
EVI:Outwards:proportionally to the distance from the centre as we proceed outwards.
EVI:Continuum:A four-dimensional continuum described by the “co-ordinates” _x_1,
EVI:Particularly:particularly St. John, have been led to the opposite opinion in
SEQ:Apply:Great
EVI:Systems:does not hold, then the Galileian co-ordinate systems _K, K′, K″_,
EVI:System:point with reference to the system _K_ (of the man with reference to
SEQ:Knowledge:Theory
SEQ:Simple:Apparently
CON:Propositions
SEQ:Carriage:Rest
SEQ:Forms:Both
SEQ:Relative:Points
SEQ:Results:Laws
EVI:Body:moving with the velocity _v_. Hence we can say: If a body takes up an
EVI:Decision:data does not allow of any definite decision being arrived at, as to
SEQ:Respect:Particular
EVI:Operating:repulsions, unless there are forces of another kind operating between
EVI:Anyone:This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
EVI:Itself:difficulty that electrodynamic theory of itself is unable to give an
EVI:Assumes:Newton’s law, in which he assumes that for great distances the force of
EVI:Boltzmann:brilliant theoretical physicist L. Boltzmann, according to whom matters
EVI:Sphere:extends exclusively over the surface of the sphere. Are these beings
SEQ:Because:Feel
SEQ:Notice:Included
EVI:Derived:and (9), and hence also of (8) and (9). We have thus derived the
EVI:Sense:reference-bodies, in the sense of the method followed in the special
EVI:Axis:From this we conclude that two points on the _x_-axis separated by the
SEQ:Stated:Several
SEQ:Come:Speak
EVI:Physical:absolute physical reality to non-uniform motion, in opposition to the
EVI:Laws:theory of relativity must yield important results on the laws of
EVI:Light:If we apply quite similar considerations to light rays which are being
SEQ:Payments:Credit
CON:Almost
EVI:Detailed:[14] Cf. the somewhat more detailed discussion in Appendix II.
SEQ:Less:Simple
REL:Displacement:Spectral
REL:Corner:Four
SEQ:Also:Physical
SEQ:Ones:Each
EVI:Body:one body of reference to another.
EVI:Continua:continua. For example, this obviously holds in the case of the marble
EVI:Arrangement:no longer achieved merely by a process of arrangement. Guided by
EVI:Present:of the kind of gravitational field which may be present, we could
SEQ:Importance:More
EVI:Conception:acknowledge, we cannot form the slightest conception, and we replace it
EVI:Source:Source: Relativity: The Special and General Theory (1920)
EVI:Accordance:contintium—accordance with the special theory of relativity—as a
SEQ:Itself:Sufficiently
EVI:Ordinates:particular co-ordinates _x_1, _x_2, _x_3, _x_4, if in themselves these
SEQ:Nature:Centre
SEQ:Unlink:Detach
EVI:Consideration:_K_ should be in the direction of the _x_-axis. A simple consideration
EVI:Disc:define exactly the co-ordinates _x, y, z_ relative to the disc by means
EVI:Sensibly:of which does not differ sensibly from the above mentioned +43 seconds
EVI:Length:the length of the carriage in the direction of travel with a velocity
EVI:Geometrical:Of course the conviction of the “truth” of geometrical propositions in
EVI:Experimental:III. The Experimental Confirmation of the General Theory of Relativity
EVI:Already:this supposition would only be possible if we already had at our
REL:Efforts:Donations
SEQ:Making:Theory
REL:Feeling:Proud
EVI:Propositions:propositions, then at a later stage (in the general theory of
EVI:Dimensional:as four-dimensional Cartesian co-ordinates. This was possible on the
SEQ:Disc:Tangentially
SEQ:Accelerated:General
EVI:What:briefly consider how this unification came about, and what meaning is
EVI:Equipment:array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
EVI:Smoothly:If everything has really gone smoothly, then I say that the points of
EVI:Iron:the iron through the intermediate empty space, but we are constrained
EVI:Indicating:contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
EVI:Feature:Of course this feature of the velocity _c_ as a limiting velocity also
EVI:Variety:electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
CON:Iines
CON:Able
SEQ:Earlier:Later
SEQ:When:Attempt
SEQ:Thus:Derived
EVI:Complicated:replaced by a more complicated law conformable to the principle of
REL:Support:Provide
EVI:Added:It may be added that, according to the theory, half of this deflection
EVI:Formats:electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
SEQ:Three:Numbers
SEQ:Order:Transport
EVI:Without:hypothesis (1) without introducing the less natural cosmological term
SEQ:Central:Part
SEQ:Gutenberg:Appears
EVI:Hence:according to the rules of Euclidean geometry. Hence the imperfections
EVI:Astronomical:Joint Committee of the Royal and Royal Astronomical Societies, the
EVI:Juncture:At this juncture the theory of relativity entered the arena. As a
SEQ:Relativity:Same
SEQ:Derived:Correctly
EVI:Space:which belongs to two adjacent points of the four-dimensional space-time
EVI:Definite:circle, _i.e._ a self-contained line of definite finite length, which
SEQ:Ellipse:Fixed
SEQ:Event:Respect
EVI:Space:“space.” I stand at the window of a railway carriage which is
EVI:First:along the embankment. In the first place we require to determine the
EVI:Geometry:designating always the correspondence with a “real” object; geometry,
EVI:Interior:passing through the surface _F_ of the sphere into its interior is
EVI:Moving:required, then both of these points are moving with the velocity v
SEQ:Exact:Validity
EVI:Hand:hand, the principle of relativity holds true and that on the other hand
EVI:Fixed:reference to those fixed stars are found to be in accord with
SEQ:Occurs:Meet
EVI:Question:its result. The experiment is concerned with the following question.
SEQ:Electromagnetic:Action
SEQ:Fourth:Equations
EVI:Laid:one can be laid on any other without the ends overlapping. We next lay
REL:Difference:Potential
CON:Distant
SEQ:First:Sight
SEQ:Calculation:Given
EVI:View:In view of this dilemma there appears to be nothing else for it than to
EVI:Respect:with the same velocity _w with respect to the liquid_, whether the
EVI:Strange:There does arise, however, a strange difficulty. The interpretation of
EVI:Independent:nature; the laws themselves must be quite independent of the choice of
EVI:Velocity:the velocity _v_ = _c_ we should have
EVI:Does:yet it does not rotate in so doing). Let us imagine a raven flying
EVI:Gravitation:into the field equations of gravitation, if one was ready to drop
SEQ:Hope:Realised
SEQ:Only:Relative
EVI:Gutenberg:of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online
SEQ:Expand:Amount
EVI:Process:increasing values of the radius. During this process the area of the
SEQ:Only:Statements
EVI:Physical:I. Physical Meaning of Geometrical Propositions
SEQ:Defined:Fulfilled
REL:Influences:Gravitational
SEQ:Clocks:Based
EVI:Round:the fixed stars resulting from the motion of the earth round the sun
SEQ:Should:Exactly
SEQ:Rather:Asserts
EVI:Than:will be somewhat less than the frequency of an atom of the same element
EVI:Standpoint:together, and discussed in detail from the standpoint of the question
EVI:Archive:Literary Archive Foundation
SEQ:Earth:Space
EVI:Pivot:The basal principle, which was the pivot of all our previous
EVI:Until:circle continues to increase more and more, until finally it becomes
EVI:Project:This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
EVI:Earlier:itself when we attempt to apply our earlier definition of simultaneity
EVI:Planets:manner indicated above; that for all the planets, with the exception of
EVI:Outside:outside the _x_-axis, is obtained by retaining equations (8) and
SEQ:Newcomb:Unexplained
EVI:Limiting:contained in electrodynamics as a limiting case; the laws of the latter
REL:Something:Classical
SEQ:Associated:Project
SEQ:Before:Advent
SEQ:Calculation:However
EVI:Liability:LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
EVI:Object:designating always the correspondence with a “real” object; geometry,
EVI:Words:z, t_, which determine an event or—in other words—a point of the
EVI:Because:satisfactory because it leads to the result that the light emitted by
EVI:Length:determine the length of the pole we should have required in order to
SEQ:Objects:Exactly
EVI:Behaviour:systems in their behaviour would be dependent on the orientation in
EVI:Basgen:Transcription/Markup: Brian Basgen
SEQ:According:Exactly
SEQ:Must:Characterised
EVI:Space:traversed the whole spherical space. It is easily seen that the
EVI:Supplies:facts, supplies us then with that particular law of motion which has
EVI:Generalised:be generalised. Obviously it is immaterial whether the axes of _K′_ be
SEQ:Make:Maximum
EVI:Nature:nature of the universe as a whole, if we treat the matter as being at
EVI:Earth:be assumed relative to the earth, and for a long time the efforts of
CON:Originator
SEQ:Rods:Still
SEQ:Opposed:Statement
EVI:Becomes:and for still greater velocities the square-root becomes imaginary.
SEQ:Exhibits:Most
SEQ:Expansion:Lies
EVI:Required:the field equations, a term which was not required by the theory as
EVI:Placed:Perhaps the reader will wonder why we have placed our “beings” on a
REL:Movement:Bodies
SEQ:Continue:Permanently
EVI:Result:In the second place our result shows that, according to the general
EVI:Clock:the centre of the disc has no velocity, whereas the clock at the edge
CON:Unfamiliar
SEQ:Shall:Truth
SEQ:Charitable:Donations
SEQ:Every:Light
SEQ:Naturally:Four
SEQ:Under:Laws
SEQ:Attaches:Body
SEQ:Must:Always
SEQ:Floor:Carriage
EVI:Section:essence of the difficulty with which we were confronted in Section
SEQ:Thought:Once
EVI:Must:equations must pass over into equations of the same form; for every
SEQ:Xxvi:Space
EVI:Imaginary:Thus, if we choose as time-variable the imaginary variable
CON:Against
EVI:World:spherical “world” and not on a Euclidean plane, for a small part of a
EVI:Made:have been made, their lengths being small compared with the dimensions
CON:Plain
EVI:Carriage:equally well choose the carriage or the embankment as our
REL:Bodies:Reference
SEQ:Confirmation:General
EVI:Expected:be expected of astronomers.[16]
SEQ:Construction:Rule
EVI:Retention:retention of the separate existence of the
SEQ:Anywhere:Localised
SEQ:Curve:Three
CON:Variety
CON:Critical
EVI:Author:Author: Albert Einstein
EVI:Regard:able to regard the geometry of their universe as being plane geometry
EVI:Deciding:classical mechanics; the Lorentz transformation is the deciding factor
EVI:Themselves:for the co-ordinates themselves are valid also for co-ordinate
EVI:Teachers:conscientious teachers. By reason of our past experience, you would
EVI:Obtained:equal to a constant _c_. By uniting these two postulates we obtained
EVI:Project:of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
EVI:Move:stars do not move in a circle. A system of co-ordinates of which the
SEQ:Such:Encounters
EVI:Give:whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
EVI:Fizeau:Section XIII in connection with the experiment of Fizeau, the result of
EVI:Curve:of the surface one and only one curve must pass. Thus a perfectly
EVI:Then:then it will also be moving uniformly and in a straight line relative
SEQ:While:Physical
SEQ:Cobbler:Make
EVI:Spherical:two-dimensional spherical surface. It is finite (_i.e._ of finite
EVI:Whereas:the centre of the disc has no velocity, whereas the clock at the edge
EVI:Shall:assumptions of the two theories. In what follows, we shall again
SEQ:Crommelin:Davidson
EVI:Continuum:continuum with reference to the measuring-rods, but only in this case,
EVI:Introduce:gravitational field _G_. Hereupon we introduce a hypothesis: that the
SEQ:Section:Place
EVI:Field:of the kind of gravitational field which may be present, we could
EVI:Obtain:are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
SEQ:Mass:Density
EVI:Increasing:surface would ultimately become infinite with increasing radius _R_ of
EVI:Isolated:Galileian law of the uniform rectilinear motion of “isolated” material
SEQ:Here:Logical
EVI:Relativity:*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK RELATIVITY: THE SPECIAL AND GENERAL THEORY ***
EVI:Interpretation:There does arise, however, a strange difficulty. The interpretation of
EVI:After:mark off the distance _S_ time after time until we reach _B_. The
CON:Prevails
SEQ:About:Only
SEQ:Whereas:Those
EVI:Chosen:respect to _K_ are given? The relations must be so chosen that the law
CON:Construction
EVI:Special:present the fundamental ideas of the special theory of relativity.
CON:Refer
EVI:Result:with this answer for the following reason. Supposing that as a result
SEQ:Refrained:Speaking
EVI:Theory:the field equations, a term which was not required by the theory as
EVI:Only:case. We can only conclude that the special theory of relativity cannot
CON:Influence
EVI:Latter:introduce into the latter a new Cartesian co-ordinate system (_x′_1,
EVI:Classical:classical mechanics. This theorem can also be deduced readily from the
EVI:Condition:will interpret the condition of things thus: “The rope must perforce
EVI:Crucial:crucial test in favour of the theory of relativity, for the
EVI:Ellipse:ellipse rotates round the sun in the same sense as the orbital motion
EVI:Becomes:space, physics becomes, as it were, an “existence” in the
SEQ:These:Occur
EVI:Time:Those space-time points (events) which satisfy (1) must also satisfy
SEQ:Separated:Distance
EVI:Field:hypothesis (2). Namely, the original field equations admit a solution
CON:Facts
SEQ:Line:Joining
SEQ:Contraction:Body
SEQ:Unity:Then
CON:Approximation
SEQ:Regards:Space
SEQ:Have:Values
EVI:Additional:_A_ and _B_ far distant from each other. I make the additional
EVI:Testing:then we should be faced with the task of testing whether or not this
SEQ:Valid:These
EVI:Body:rotating reference-body, go at rates which are dependent on the
EVI:Believes:theory of gravitation.[18] But since the observer believes in the
SEQ:Prevent:Copying
REL:Require:Reached
EVI:Have:which this difference should have been clearly detectable. But the
SEQ:Embankment:System
SEQ:Amount:Rigid
SEQ:Other:Both
SEQ:Receipt:Work
EVI:Problem:It is clear that we have the problem of Section VI again before us. The
SEQ:Same:Respect
SEQ:Available:Measurements
EVI:These:of relativity has grown out of electrodynamics and optics. In these
SEQ:Never:Strictly
EVI:Because:motion as our body of reference. We should then be justified (because
EVI:Possible:calculation is not possible in the case of the stars, because in
EVI:Gravitational:interpretation rests on the fundamental property of the gravitational
EVI:Theory:to any physical theory, than that it should of itself point out the way
SEQ:Move:Them
EVI:Depends:in which the “world radius” depends on time (expanding space). In that
EVI:Ordinates:numbers, _x_1, _x_2, _x_3, _x_4, which are known as “co-ordinates.”
EVI:Least:this bluish something will cause the emission of the steam, or at least
EVI:Reference:individual events relative to both reference-bodies, such that every
REL:Minimum:Emission
SEQ:Where:Gravitational
EVI:Different:different distances from the centre of the disc. This result is also
REL:Time:Space
EVI:Copy:prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
SEQ:Please:Visit
SEQ:Follows:Generalisation
EVI:Stars:from large stars, as compared with the corresponding lines for light
EVI:Attracting:attracting material points is inversely proportional to the square of
EVI:Embankment:embankment _in each second_ of time. But, according to the foregoing
EVI:Obscure:them, the nature of which has hitherto remained obscure to us.[13] If
CON:Electrodynamical
EVI:Preceding:discussed in the preceding section), the man in the chest will thus
EVI:Links:1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
EVI:Piece:body._ For instance, a piece of lead and a piece of wood fall in
SEQ:Course:Only
SEQ:Theory:Hold
EVI:Part:They can convince themselves of this on every part of their “world,”
CON:Occupant
SEQ:Without:Making
SEQ:Term:Added
REL:Degree:Plausibility
SEQ:Xxvi:Regarded
EVI:Beam:whilst he is riding on ahead of the beam of light coming from _A_.
EVI:Classical:Analogously, I seek in vain for a real something in classical mechanics
SEQ:Action:Body
CON:Physicist
EVI:Motion:would be due to the fact that the carriage _K_ would be in motion
EVI:Centre:different distances from the centre of the disc. This result is also
EVI:Continuum:four or more dimensions. If, for instance, a continuum of four
EVI:Field:to ρ0_V/F_ or to ρ0_R_. Hence the intensity of the field at the
EVI:Main:be termed a “reference-mollusc”, is in the main equivalent to a
EVI:Average:(1) There exists an average density of matter in the whole of space
EVI:Interpret:might also interpret his experience thus: “My body of reference (the
EVI:Theory:special theory of relativity has crystallised out from the
SEQ:Above:Marble
SEQ:Hand:Application
SEQ:Relativity:Restricted
EVI:Unless:unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.
EVI:Limitation:damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
SEQ:Assume:Mathematical
REL:Alongside:Each
EVI:When:(2). Obviously this will be the case when the relation
EVI:Where:where the “gravitational mass” is likewise a characteristic constant
EVI:Choice:in a “Galileian” fashion under suitable choice of reference-body,
SEQ:Hubble:Discovery
EVI:Mercury:(_a_) Motion of the Perihelion of Mercury
SEQ:Embankment:Railway
SEQ:Indicate:Position
EVI:Material:But if rods of every kind (_i.e._ of every material) were to behave _in
SEQ:Then:Decreases
SEQ:Events:Relative
EVI:Every:choosing one corner of a square as “origin” I can characterise every
EVI:Treat:Gauss indicated the principles according to which we can treat the
CON:Among
EVI:Dependent:rotating reference-body, go at rates which are dependent on the
EVI:Domains:domains to _non-Galileian_ reference-bodies also. A gravitational field
SEQ:Xvii:Minkowski
EVI:These:of a special kind is then present with respect to these bodies (cf.
EVI:Earth:we should therefore expect that the direction of motion of the earth at
EVI:Left:that the Galileian law holds with respect to it: A particle left to
EVI:Hears:hears of “four-dimensional” things, by a feeling not unlike that
SEQ:Newton:Gravitation
EVI:Downwards:“vertically” downwards. If we ask for an opinion of the cause of
SEQ:Drift:Relative
EVI:Produced:produced in an analogous manner terrestrially (_i.e._ by the same kind
EVI:Explains:formulated—a law which not only explains the motion of the stars
EVI:Means:the variably heated marble slab, and if we had no other means of
EVI:Square:“upwards,” in order to arrive at the corner of the square under
EVI:Railway:embankment. Now let us suppose that our railway carriage is again
EVI:Unable:wanderer who was unable to see the forest for the trees. May the book
EVI:Gravitational:gravitational field, at least if we attribute the length 1 to the rod
EVI:Every:They can convince themselves of this on every part of their “world,”
EVI:Physicist:deceived as a physicist (and of course the same applies if I am not a
SEQ:Then:Shall
EVI:Acquired:hypothesis of the hereditary transmission of acquired characters.
EVI:Body:removed from the body are thence determined by the law which governs
REL:Square:Already
CON:Ground
SEQ:Place:Judged
EVI:Archive:Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
EVI:Speak:those possessing motion of a different kind). In this sense we speak of
EVI:Clocks:rotation with regard to a Galileian system _K_, clocks of identical
EVI:Body:practically rigid body is something which is lodged deeply in our habit
SEQ:Motion:These
EVI:Xvii:Minkowski, which was only vaguely indicated in Section XVII. In
EVI:Question:question leads to a general one. In the discussion of Section VI we
CON:Regardless
EVI:Property:unique in possessing the property that all points on it are equivalent.
EVI:Difficulty:the measurement gives a whole number. This difficulty is got over by
EVI:According:intensity of the action on a body dimishes according to a quite
SEQ:Squares:Meet
EVI:Definite:At all events, a definite decision will be reached during the next few
EVI:Newton:Newton’s theory, a planet moves round the sun in an ellipse, which
SEQ:Fundamental:Difficulties
EVI:System:system _K_, the liquid plays the part of the carriage or of the
SEQ:Reluctance:Interpret
SEQ:Physics:Relativity
EVI:Three:three space co-ordinates. Formally, these four co-ordinates correspond
CON:Readers
EVI:Time:replace the usual time co-ordinate t by an imaginary magnitude
EVI:Light:It is required by the law of propagation of light, in conjunction with
EVI:Constancy:which the law of the constancy of the velocity of light in vacuo is a
EVI:Dimensional:analogy, namely, the three-dimensional spherical space which was
EVI:Theoretical:means of purely theoretical operations (_i.e._ simply by calculation)
CON:Rotates
SEQ:Represented:Respect
CON:English
EVI:Cathode:It is known that cathode rays and the so-called β-rays emitted by
EVI:Describe:planet which is revolving round the sun would describe an ellipse round
EVI:Motion:the fixed stars resulting from the motion of the earth round the sun
EVI:Measurements:analogous to those holding in our three-dimensional measurements.
EVI:Copyright:effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
EVI:Statements:statements of a large number of individual observations in the form of
EVI:Reduced:considerably reduced the number of independent hypotheses forming the
REL:Accustomed:Regard
EVI:Also:_K_, but also with respect to every co-ordinate system _K′_ which is in
EVI:Stipulation:satisfactory manner by making a more subtle stipulation about the
EVI:Rope:neutralised by the tension of the rope; what determines the magnitude
EVI:Measured:measured with a little rod, by means of the very small number _ds_.
EVI:About:amounts to about two millionths of the wave-length. A trustworthy
EVI:Nothing:nothing more nor less than the results of measurements obtainable by
SEQ:Series:Manipulations
SEQ:Alongside:Each
EVI:Closure:while the original “static” hypothesis of space yielded the closure
EVI:Time:that in physics, before the advent of the theory of relativity, time
EVI:Obtained:interpretation can be obtained only if we recognise the following fact:
EVI:Section:question leads to a general one. In the discussion of Section VI we
CON:Principle
SEQ:Erected:Means
EVI:System:Now let us refer this domain to a random Gauss coordinate system or to
EVI:Events:[7] We suppose further that, when three events _A, B_ and _C_ occur in
SEQ:Might:Think
REL:Number:Identical
EVI:Velocities:In Section VI we derived the theorem of the addition of velocities in
EVI:Position:line also loses its meaning. We are therefore not in a position to
EVI:Theory:theory of the development of species by selection in the struggle for
EVI:Motion:motion of the reference-body is of such a nature that it does not
SEQ:Measure:Grossly
EVI:Question:represent the motions of the points in question have a particular
EVI:Element:stars as compared with the spectral lines of the same element produced
EVI:Relative:gravitational field exists relative to a reference-body _K_ whose state
EVI:Revolution:direction of the velocity of revolution of the earth in the course of a
REL:Hours:Suggestive
EVI:Than:the clock goes more slowly than when at rest. Here also the velocity
SEQ:Flash:Took
EVI:Diagram:_M_ but it moves towards the right in the diagram with the velocity v
SEQ:Agree:Indemnify
SEQ:Give:Notice
EVI:Date:to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website
EVI:Indeed:indeed, they will no longer be able to demonstrate that they are on a
CON:Extent
SEQ:Body:Chest
EVI:Supplemented:situated there. These data must be supplemented by such a definition of
EVI:Regard:(co-ordinate system); they regard all events in reference to the train.
SEQ:Foundation:Profit
SEQ:Nature:Whatever
EVI:Attraction:attraction between two masses diminishes more rapidly than would result
CON:Liability
EVI:Hubble:A few years later Hubble showed, by a special investigation of the
CON:Prevailing
SEQ:Interpreted:Physically
CON:Frame
SEQ:Measuring:Combined
EVI:Light:to take for granted that the propagation of light always takes place
SEQ:Carriage:Experiences
EVI:Footpath:misdeed from the footpath notices that the stone falls to earth in a
SEQ:Through:Space
EVI:Exist:naturally does not exist for this observer. He must fasten himself with
EVI:Arguments:of light (Doppler principle). The experimental arguments in favour of
EVI:General:RELATIVITY: THE SPECIAL AND GENERAL THEORY
CON:Manner
EVI:Between:repulsions, unless there are forces of another kind operating between
EVI:Appear:order to see how the points of the _x′_-axis appear as viewed from _K_,
SEQ:Every:Event
SEQ:Motion:Here
REL:Amount:Patience
CON:Broad
EVI:Principle:A FEW INFERENCES FROM THE GENERAL PRINCIPLE OF RELATIVITY
EVI:Field:domains, _i.e._ to those in which no gravitational field exists. In
SEQ:Satisfactorily:Than
EVI:Influences:field influences the process studied.
CON:Subtle
EVI:Uniformly:rotates uniformly in its own plane about its centre. An observer who is
EVI:Theory:what way this result becomes modified in the general theory of
EVI:These:deflection of these rays under the influence of electric and magnetic
SEQ:Defined:Physically
EVI:Critical:assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™’s
SEQ:Experiment:Gave
CON:Ready
EVI:Depend:where _g_11, _g_12, _g_22, are magnitudes which depend in a perfectly
SEQ:Agreement:Free
EVI:Viewing:unheard-of values—provided that we are viewing all this from another
EVI:Orbital:orbital motion. The value obtained for this rotary movement of the
EVI:Considered:considered in Section XXIV. In contrast to ours, the universe of these
EVI:Gravitational:general, in every gravitational field, a clock will go more quickly or
EVI:Offer:After thinking the matter over for some time you then offer the
EVI:Equations:uniformly with reference to the first, the equations of the Lorentz
CON:Reconciled
EVI:Construction:of the construction of squares in the previous section do not show
SEQ:Condition:Readings
CON:Dimishes
EVI:Preference:systems are given preference for the description of the
SEQ:Created:Provide
REL:Both:These
SEQ:Table:Local
SEQ:Transformation:Transmission
SEQ:Also:Everyday
EVI:Evidence:of which will hardly be doubted without empirical evidence to the
SEQ:Field:Matter
CON:Surprises
EVI:Part:is available for their measurements. But if this part is very small
EVI:Problem:gravitational field is absent. But the most attractive problem, to the
SEQ:Deductions:Special
EVI:Accordance:system _K′_ in accordance with the equation
SEQ:Imagine:Sitting
EVI:Punitive:LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
EVI:Relative:motions only to systems of coordinates relative to which the fixed
EVI:Able:shall hardly be able to compare the results of the previous section
EVI:Time:differences _dx, dy, dz_ and the time-difference _dt_. With reference
SEQ:Measuring:Experience
EVI:Down:we have just written down does not hold in reality. For the time being,
SEQ:Properties:Shows
EVI:These:against a misconception suggested by these considerations. A
EVI:Within:you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
REL:Permission:Writing
EVI:Like:with the distance from operative bodies. It is something like this: The
EVI:Explained:of inertial and gravitational mass; but it has also already explained a
EVI:Answered:experience? This question is not easily answered for the reason already
EVI:Ordinate:does not hold, then the Galileian co-ordinate systems _K, K′, K″_,
EVI:Definition:the above definition), then the criterion for the simultaneity of the
EVI:Difference:contraction being just sufficient to compensate for the difference in
SEQ:Order:Give
EVI:Other:the one by the other, he will not obtain as quotient the familiar
EVI:Checks:ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
EVI:Volume:is constant throughout the universe, then a sphere of volume _V_ will
SEQ:Transformation:Deciding
EVI:Position:sun is situated at another position in the sky, _i.e._ a few months
CON:Frequency
EVI:Then:virtue of these ideas, we are inclined to accept as “true.” Then, on
EVI:Coincides:of lightning occur, this point _M′_ naturally coincides with the point
SEQ:Relativity:Concerned
SEQ:Means:Photographic
SEQ:Means:Number
SEQ:Success:Mach
SEQ:Work:Presumes
SEQ:Shall:Certainly
EVI:Space:exactly to the three space co-ordinates in Euclidean geometry. It must
SEQ:Earth:Course
EVI:Nature:any moment would enter into the laws of nature, and also that physical
SEQ:Follows:Physical
EVI:Principle:The great power possessed by the general principle of relativity lies
CON:Treating
SEQ:System:Observer
SEQ:Distance:Apart
EVI:Potential:gravitational potential does not exist, then the general theory of
EVI:Transformed:transformed into a law of exactly the same form when, instead of the
EVI:Following:formulation of natural laws. Our course was more on the following
EVI:Experiences:carriage experiences a jerk forwards as a result of the application of
EVI:Concerned:theory of relativity has led is concerned with the conception of mass.
EVI:Getting:getting into the greatest difficulties. We only need to think of the
REL:Objects:Nature
CON:Under
EVI:Another:and replaced by another which does not assume the validity of Euclidean
EVI:Shall:system). As such a system let us again choose our embankment. We shall
EVI:Brian:Transcription/Markup: Brian Basgen
REL:Justified:Saying
SEQ:Laid:Consequence
EVI:Performing:agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
EVI:Gutenberg:at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States,
EVI:When:to _K′_, when the magnitudes _x, y, z, t_, of the same event with
EVI:Changed:If the motion of the carriage is now changed into a non-uniform motion,
EVI:Relativity:XXI. In What Respects are the Foundations of Classical Mechanics and of the Special Theory of Relativity Unsatisfactory?
CON:Intention
SEQ:Nature:Universe
EVI:Stars:relative motions of the fixed stars with respect to the earth on the
CON:Assigned
EVI:Three:Space is a three-dimensional continuum. By this we mean that it is
EVI:General:case, and how this question is connected with the general postulate of
SEQ:Section:Interpreting
SEQ:Positive:Axis
EVI:Allgemeinen:entitled “Zur Prüfung der allgemeinen Relativitäts-Theorie” (_Die
EVI:Online:of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online
EVI:Place:believes he knows, that this propagation takes place in straight lines
EVI:Cartesian:each other. Here the Gaussian coordinates are simply Cartesian ones. It
EVI:Clear:But between the clear vision of this goal and its actual realisation it
SEQ:After:Further
EVI:Matter:density of matter to be constant everywhere, even to infinity, without
SEQ:Whether:Motion
CON:Hart
SEQ:Apart:Hitherto
EVI:Earth:the fixed stars resulting from the motion of the earth round the sun
SEQ:Advance:Step
SEQ:Observations:Cloud
SEQ:Move:Upwards
EVI:Both:which they have access is in both cases practically plane, or
SEQ:Permanently:Hence
SEQ:Experience:Acceleration
EVI:Advent:that in physics, before the advent of the theory of relativity, time
SEQ:Hold:Four
SEQ:Interval:Time
SEQ:Involved:Finiteness
CON:Give
EVI:Lying:numbers lying between 1 and 2. We have then a system of _u_-curves, and
CON:Agreed
EVI:Contrast:In contrast to this we wish to understand by the “general principle of
EVI:Mass:the equality of inertial and gravitational mass. Thus we have obtained
SEQ:Attempt:Imagine
SEQ:Practically:Must
EVI:Indirect:LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
SEQ:Following:Manner
EVI:Disc:cannot hold exactly on the rotating disc, nor in general in a
CON:Rigid
EVI:Terms:associated with the geometrical ideas. In less exact terms we can
EVI:Reference:uniformly with reference to the first, the equations of the Lorentz
SEQ:Damages:Disclaimer
SEQ:Regarded:Essentially
SEQ:Theoretical:Treatment
SEQ:Unit:Area
CON:Examining
SEQ:Axis:Parallel
EVI:Formula:corresponding formula
EVI:Equations:since the equations of such a theory hold for every body of reference,
CON:Manager
CON:Corrupt
EVI:These:reference to the circular disc _K′_, these definitions being based on
EVI:Between:between reference-bodies _K_ relative to which the recognised “laws of
EVI:Displayed:phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
EVI:Other:classical mechanics, cannot be maintained; in other words, the law that
EVI:Rigid:position of practically rigid bodies.[1] Geometry which has been
SEQ:Reach:Simultaneously
EVI:Able:we are then able to find how this known natural process appears, as
EVI:Disc:between the position of the clock and the centre of the disc by φ,
EVI:Suppose:Let us suppose our old friend the railway carriage to be travelling
EVI:Access:possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
CON:Clearness
EVI:States:outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.
EVI:Travelling:travelling along the railway lines with the velocity _v_, and that its
SEQ:Things:Called
EVI:Reference:reference-bodies. The validity of the principle of relativity was
EVI:Thankfully:and of the little rods, about which I can only be thankfully surprised.
EVI:Another:It may be mentioned that there is yet another kind of curved space:
CON:Perfectly
EVI:Whether:so that they are at rest relative to it. We now ask ourselves whether
SEQ:Suppose:Light
EVI:Next:At all events, a definite decision will be reached during the next few
EVI:Physical:PHYSICAL MEANING OF GEOMETRICAL PROPOSITIONS
EVI:Directly:be content to regard this as meaning that the magnet acts directly on
EVI:Desire:If we desire to adhere to our “old-time” three-dimensional view of
EVI:Fitness:LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.
SEQ:Embankment:Different
SEQ:Expansive:Motion
EVI:Surface:The surface of a marble table is spread out in front of me. I can get
SEQ:What:Meaning
EVI:Points:for all points of the “worldsphere”; in other words, the “world-sphere”
SEQ:Infinite:Stars
EVI:Nevertheless:appearance, practically all of which must nevertheless escape the test
EVI:Since:the theory of relativity, since according to this theory time is robbed
SEQ:Inclined:Reject
SEQ:Performed:Viewed
EVI:Live:in which we live is infinite, or whether it is finite in the manner of
EVI:Seem:such nor did it seem natural from a theoretical point of view
EVI:Access:access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
SEQ:Slightly:Each
CON:Parabola
EVI:Variations:distance sun-planet exhibits periodic variations; but in this case the
CON:Precept
CON:Either
EVI:Embankment:embankment. These points _A_ and _B_ of the embankment can be
EVI:Every:in all positions and in every orientation. Hence the idea of a straight
CON:Possesses
EVI:Yield:theory of relativity must yield important results on the laws of
EVI:However:However, we obtain a new result of fundamental importance when we carry
CON:Perpendicular
SEQ:First:Principles
CON:Beyond
CON:Static
SEQ:Last:Three
CON:Argument
EVI:Mentioned:mentioned in connection with the fundamental experiment of Fizeau. The
SEQ:Only:These
EVI:Part:part, however, this modification affects only the laws for rapid
SEQ:Significance:Independent
EVI:Dimensional:MINKOWSKI’S FOUR-DIMENSIONAL SPACE
EVI:Consequence:of light varies with position. Now we might think that as a consequence
SEQ:Judged:Three
EVI:Universe:To this two-dimensional sphere-universe there is a three-dimensional
EVI:Coordinates:arbitrary? The method of Cartesian coordinates must then be discarded,
CON:Ahead
EVI:Constants:We should thus have the solution of our problem, if the constants _a_
EVI:Incomplete:contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
SEQ:Respect:Space
EVI:Definitely:spectrum was definitely established by Adams in 1924, by observations
EVI:Matter:(_b_) If there is any matter in the domain under consideration, only
CON:Units
EVI:Four:found rather in the fact of his recognition that the four-dimensional
SEQ:Repeatedly:Emphasised
EVI:Between:We have another instance of far-reaching agreement between the
EVI:Spherical:“rigid” bodies. In this sense we _can_ imagine a spherical space.
EVI:Analogy:The analogy with (12) is a complete one. We can regard Minkowski’s
SEQ:Same:Spectral
SEQ:Standing:Front
SEQ:Earth:Erecting
SEQ:Light:Principle
REL:Order:Arrive
EVI:Does:data does not allow of any definite decision being arrived at, as to
EVI:Greatest:In order to attain the greatest possible clearness, let us return to
EVI:Moving:transition from one Galileian system to another, which is moving
EVI:Reader:If the reader has followed all our previous considerations, he will
CON:Veritable
EVI:Even:even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
SEQ:Position:Must
SEQ:Universe:Finite
EVI:Darwinian:interest is available in the province of biology, in the Darwinian
SEQ:Modified:Before
SEQ:Hypothesis:Itself
CON:Notable
EVI:Body:justified on the grounds of experience in supposing his reference-body
EVI:Supplemented:supplemented in this way is then to be treated as a branch of physics.
SEQ:Permission:Without
EVI:Bodies:supplies us with the actual motions of the heavenly bodies with a
SEQ:Motion:Without
EVI:Exists:motion, then relative to _K′_ there exists a gravitational field which
EVI:Consideration:explanation; of course it would require some consideration if I were to
EVI:Influences:correct the observed motion of the planets for these two influences,
SEQ:Every:Such
EVI:Equations:of the first and fourth equations of the _Lorentz transformation_.
SEQ:Greatest:Importance
SEQ:Position:Derive
EVI:Calculation:space it would be infinite. But calculation shows that in a
EVI:Exporting:to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
EVI:Freely:free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
SEQ:Mechanics:Starts
EVI:Astonished:whilst the other does not, then I shall remain astonished and
EVI:Thinking:After thinking the matter over for some time you then offer the
EVI:Universe:An elliptical universe can thus be considered to some extent as a
EVI:Only:we only require to take a “snapshot” of _K′_ from _K_; this means that
EVI:Foundation:1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
SEQ:Also:Definition
SEQ:Fixed:Star
SEQ:However:Concerned
EVI:Slab:these squares until finally the whole marble slab is laid out with
SEQ:Field:Influences
EVI:Able:In the first part of this book we were able to make use of space-time
SEQ:More:Respect
EVI:Respect:space with respect to the earth. For owing to the alteration in
EVI:Form:equations must pass over into equations of the same form; for every
SEQ:Xxvii:Space
SEQ:Farther:Ought
SEQ:Thenceforward:Gradually
CON:Forth
EVI:Have:the disc, then we have
EVI:Such:easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
CON:Sets
EVI:Relativity:Title: Relativity: The Special and General Theory
SEQ:Embankment:Reference
EVI:Cannot:Hence it cannot be contended that the man in walking travels the
EVI:Given:determined by applying the definition of time given in Section VIII.
EVI:Events:(1) The time-interval (time) between two events is independent of the
EVI:Have:_x_-axis with respect to _K_, then we should have found that the length
SEQ:Circle:Self
EVI:Certain:_A priori_ it is by no means certain that this last measurement will
EVI:Velocity:direction is the same as that of the ray of light, but its velocity of
EVI:Hitherto:empirical evidence appertaining to them which has hitherto been
EVI:Exactly:the condition of transformation in exactly the same way as the space
EVI:Comes:But this result comes into conflict with the principle of relativity
EVI:Place:train. An event, wherever it may have taken place, would be fixed in
CON:Representations
CON:Borrowed
SEQ:Plan:Train
SEQ:What:Work
EVI:First:first approximation the Newtonian theory. Thus the latter theory is
EVI:Obvious:the ray of light relative to the carriage. It is obvious that we can
EVI:Periodic:distance sun-planet exhibits periodic variations; but in this case the
SEQ:Work:Original
SEQ:These:Considerations
EVI:Albert:ALBERT EINSTEIN REFERENCE ARCHIVE
CON:Suggested
SEQ:Juncture:Grant
EVI:Actually:of the co-ordinates are not actually determined by constructions with
EVI:Copyright:States without permission and without paying copyright
EVI:Carriage:system _K_, the liquid plays the part of the carriage or of the
SEQ:Preference:Sense
EVI:Time:determine the corresponding values of the time by the observation of
EVI:Founded:others; for any one of these laws would be founded just as little on
CON:Answering
EVI:Important:furnish us with important information as to the mass of the heavenly
SEQ:Physical:State
REL:State:Mississippi
EVI:Appreciate:appreciate with sufficient clearness what I mean here by “neighbouring”
SEQ:Earth:Mirror
EVI:Excellent:According to recent and most excellent measurements by Zeeman, the
EVI:Physical:any moment would enter into the laws of nature, and also that physical
SEQ:Without:Ever
EVI:Embankment:(embankment) it describes a parabola. With the aid of this example it
SEQ:Said:Hold
EVI:Train:train will with a vantage view the train as a rigid reference-body
SEQ:Shorter:When
CON:British
EVI:Little:which have little probability, and which were devised solely for this
CON:Opportunities
SEQ:Actual:Evidence
EVI:Observer:with respect to the original reference-body _K_. But the observer on
EVI:General:is fulfilled in general, where λ indicates a constant; for, according
SEQ:Itself:Surely
EVI:Observations:observations, and it is just here that the “truth” of the theory lies.
EVI:Distance:the embankment with the velocity _v_, and inquire as to their distance
CON:Survive
CON:Discovers
SEQ:Railway:Embankment
EVI:Body:reference-body let us imagine a spacious chest resembling a room with
EVI:Ordinates:_x, y, z, t_ = four-dimensional co-ordinates
CON:Interested
EVI:Case:_not_ derivable from the Galileian special case, simply by means of a
EVI:Latter:this latter theory the velocity of light must always depend on the
EVI:Displaying:displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
SEQ:Latter:Theory
EVI:Calculation:another point: it is shown by calculation that for a given velocity _v_
SEQ:System:Another
EVI:Identification:Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification
EVI:Incidental:justification for this incidental conception, which is indeed a
EVI:Force:Newton’s law, in which he assumes that for great distances the force of
SEQ:Magnitude:Distance
SEQ:Simple:Manner
SEQ:Fact:According
SEQ:Transcription:Markup
SEQ:State:Many
CON:Promoting
SEQ:Other:Bodies
SEQ:About:Finite
SEQ:Meet:Just
EVI:Light:the law of transmission of light for all Galileian systems of
EVI:Relativity:XVI. Experience and the Special Theory of Relativity
EVI:Processing:any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
EVI:Refund:opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
EVI:Embankment:equally well choose the carriage or the embankment as our
EVI:Have:we have to insert a particular value of _t_ (time of _K_), _e.g._ _t_ =
EVI:Independent:independent of the nature and the condition of the body and always the
EVI:Ought:stars ought to appear to be displaced outwards from the sun by an
EVI:Whose:gravitational field exists relative to a reference-body _K_ whose state
SEQ:Possible:Preserve
EVI:Motion:of the disc is in motion relative to _K_ in consequence of the
EVI:Compared:are small compared with the velocity of light, we then obtain as a
CON:Strike
EVI:Mode:According to Gauss, this combined analytical and geometrical mode of
SEQ:Three:Surfaces
CON:Unsuccessful
EVI:Project:will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
EVI:Comply:unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.
SEQ:Field:Operates
SEQ:Consists:Three
EVI:Limited:LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.
EVI:Section:of the construction of squares in the previous section do not show
EVI:Dimensional:four-dimensional, space-time continuum. We called these “Galileian
REL:Relative:Both
CON:Registered
EVI:Copies:destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
EVI:Means:other corner of a square with reference to this origin by means of two
CON:Arises
SEQ:Mention:Here
SEQ:Almost:Beyond
SEQ:Means:Appropriate
CON:Thought
EVI:Attached:which is rigidly attached to the earth, then, relative to this system,
SEQ:Hypothesis:Form
EVI:Average:enclose the average mass ρ0_V_. Thus the number of lines of force
SEQ:Gravitation:Also
SEQ:Declare:Maintain
SEQ:Orbit:Mercury
SEQ:Realized:Possible
CON:Returns
EVI:Island:equipped two expeditions—to Sobral (Brazil), and to the island of
SEQ:Vague:Notion
EVI:Then:planes” (“co-ordinate system”). A co-ordinate system _K_ then
EVI:Theory:considered to some extent as a confirmation of the theory.
EVI:Impossible:as a process impossible without the intervention of some intermediary
EVI:Similarly:framework. Similarly, we can imagine the train travelling with the
EVI:Embankment:points _A_ and _B_ of the embankment which are just being passed by the
EVI:Respect:would permanently maintain its position with respect to the fixed
EVI:Decides:facts. Experiment[10] decides in favour of equation (B) derived from
SEQ:Deductions:Shall
EVI:Alteration:space with respect to the earth. For owing to the alteration in
REL:Works:Compliance
EVI:Three:exactly to the three space co-ordinates in Euclidean geometry. It must
SEQ:Simple:Conditions
EVI:Correspond:three space co-ordinates. Formally, these four co-ordinates correspond
EVI:Certain:Certain considerations suggest that we should refer the same Galileian
SEQ:Slightest:Attention
EVI:More:rate_ if they are of identical construction. Stated more exactly: When
EVI:Transformation:classical mechanics; the Lorentz transformation is the deciding factor
SEQ:Necessarily:Rotate
EVI:Solar:the solar system occupies only a negligibly small part of the spherical
EVI:Elegance:frequently, without paying the slightest attention to the elegance of
SEQ:Minkowski:Only
SEQ:Made:Rods
EVI:Gravitational:produces in its surrounding a gravitational field, which acts on the
EVI:Greatest:problem of the greatest importance, the early solution of which is to
CON:Contrast
SEQ:Publication:First
EVI:General:considered as reference-body. The general principle of relativity
EVI:Robert:Authorised Translation by Robert W. Lawson
SEQ:Basis:Investigations
SEQ:Course:Hope
SEQ:Opinion:Cause
SEQ:Reference:Stated
EVI:Field:directly; the intensity and direction of the field at points farther
SEQ:Carriage:Sensible
CON:Opposition
EVI:Helmholtz:with experience (Riemann, Helmholtz). These questions have already been
EVI:Simple:latter been developed trom electrodynamics as an astoundingly simple
EVI:Information:Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
EVI:These:following conclusion from these premises, in conjunction with the
EVI:Whole:nature of the universe as a whole, if we treat the matter as being at
SEQ:Lightning:Occur
SEQ:Example:Railway
SEQ:Methods:Addresses
EVI:Things:since there are other things which are not influenced in a similar
EVI:Being:the other. Both are half full of water. I notice that steam is being
EVI:Distance:train_,—then this distance—_as measured from the embankment_ is not
EVI:Definition:are thus led also to a definition of “time” in physics. For this
EVI:Show:of measuring-rods, as a little consideration will show.
EVI:Guided:mass_ of the body.” Guided by this example, we see that our extension
EVI:These:ideas correspond to more or less exact objects in nature, and these
EVI:Radius:such away, that the angle described by the radius sun-planet between
SEQ:Only:Sense
SEQ:Time:Three
EVI:Statements:statements about their encounters. In our mathematical treatment, such
CON:Three
SEQ:Laws:Electrostatics
SEQ:Maintaining:Exempt
EVI:Seen:is clearly seen that there is no such thing as an independently
SEQ:Still:Farther
EVI:Finds:this connection the difficulty mentioned in Section XXX finds its
EVI:Proud:perhaps this feeling of proud certainty would leave you immediately if
EVI:Pedestrian:see the stone descend in a straight line. A pedestrian who observes the
EVI:Involves:transformation, this simple relation between _x_ and _t_ involves a
SEQ:Terms:Always
EVI:Contended:Since it has often been contended by opponents of the theory of
EVI:Universe:is constant throughout the universe, then a sphere of volume _V_ will
EVI:Conclusion:Ought we to smile at the man and say that he errs in his conclusion? I
EVI:Charge:you share it without charge with others.
SEQ:Another:Part
CON:Popular
EVI:Second:in comparison with the second, which last is alone considered in
EVI:Example:mass_ of the body.” Guided by this example, we see that our extension
EVI:Associated:work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.
CON:Indisputable
EVI:Proposition:propositions of Euclidean geometry by the single proposition that two
EVI:Flat:and to their flat “things” is the all-inclusive reality of their plane.
SEQ:Other:Relative
EVI:Shortening:measuring-rod will not experience a shortening in length, as judged
EVI:Quickly:less quickly, according to the position in which the clock is situated
EVI:Exactness:exactness that this velocity is the same for all colours, because if
EVI:Impossible:impossible to construct a Cartesian co-ordinate system from equal rods,
CON:Embankment
SEQ:Space:Equal
EVI:Since:Since it has often been contended by opponents of the theory of
SEQ:Strike:Being
SEQ:License:Included
SEQ:Positions:Pointers
EVI:Exact:almost an exact circle, which makes it more difficult to locate the
EVI:Space:island in the infinite ocean of space.[24]
EVI:These:point, and mark off from each of these the distance _r_ with a
CON:Century
SEQ:Most:Elegantly
EVI:System:the conservation of energy, and is only valid provided that the system
EVI:Rigid:rigidly attached to a rigid body. Referred to a system of co-ordinates,
EVI:Laws:the general laws of nature._”
EVI:Whose:But no person whose mode of thought is logical can rest satisfied with
EVI:Velocity:the same velocity as along the length _B_ → _M_. But an examination of
EVI:Difficulty:solution of the difficulty was the right one. But on the basis of the
SEQ:Stars:Eclipse
SEQ:Foundation:Anyone
EVI:Being:property of being uniquely determined by two points situated on it. The
EVI:Light:whilst he is riding on ahead of the beam of light coming from _A_.
EVI:Motion:principle of the physical relativity of all _uniform_ motion. Let as
SEQ:Fundamental:Mechanics
EVI:Support:volunteer support.
SEQ:Following:Suggestion
CON:Holder
SEQ:Hands:Clocks
EVI:Project:Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
EVI:Nature:motion of the reference-body is of such a nature that it does not
CON:Proposition
SEQ:Rigid:Reference
SEQ:Diameter:Circle
EVI:Since:But since a gravitational field exists with respect to this new body of
EVI:Point:continuously from one point to a “neighbouring” one, and repeating this
EVI:Proportional:that motion. the contracted length being proportional to the expression
EVI:Numbers:numbers lying between 1 and 2. We have then a system of _u_-curves, and
EVI:Electric:deflection of these rays under the influence of electric and magnetic
EVI:Becomes:demands of a natural law, and in virtue of this, the theory becomes a
SEQ:Differ:Another
EVI:Archive:Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
EVI:Public:public support and donations to carry out its mission of
CON:Gives
EVI:Combine:can combine this with the principle of relativity, and sum up the
SEQ:Intensity:Direction
EVI:Repel:account of their nature. For since electrical masses of one sign repel
SEQ:Working:Great
SEQ:Complication:Newton
SEQ:Between:Place
EVI:Rigid:by “motion relative to a practically rigid body of reference.” The
SEQ:Amount:Seconds
EVI:Infinity:of force” which come from infinity and terminate in a mass m is
EVI:Draw:By means of comparatively simple considerations we are led to draw the
EVI:Comparison:comparison. Regarded in this way, the development of a science bears
SEQ:Last:Alone
SEQ:Physics:Before
EVI:Field:XIX. The Gravitational Field
CON:Orbital
EVI:Difference:also lead, and this despite the profound difference in the fundamental
EVI:Make:appear to be called in question. In reality we must make a subtle
SEQ:Individual:Parts
EVI:Uniting:equal to a constant _c_. By uniting these two postulates we obtained
SEQ:Here:Shall
EVI:Find:that above with the marble slab), we should find that different laws
SEQ:Body:Removed
EVI:Clock:the clock goes more slowly than when at rest. Here also the velocity
EVI:Spectral:itself in a slight displacement of the spectral lines of the light
EVI:Minimum:minimum. If instead of Newton’s law we insert a somewhat different law
EVI:Statements:any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
SEQ:Suffice:Present
EVI:Must:Mercury it must amount to 43 seconds of arc per century, a result which
EVI:Following:following manner.
SEQ:Unable:Leave
EVI:Course:formulation of natural laws. Our course was more on the following
EVI:Also:observations of double stars, the Dutch astronomer De Sitter was also
EVI:Stars:stars ought to appear to be displaced outwards from the sun by an
EVI:Determine:determine the behaviour of the rods relative to the _u_-curves and
CON:Obviously
SEQ:Several:Times
SEQ:Touch:Them
EVI:Section:obtain, as in Section VI,
EVI:Express:embankment and the railway carriage, we can express the fact of the
CON:Dutch
EVI:Relative:etc., which are moving uniformly relative to each other, will not be
EVI:Reached:with the empirical data of astronomy, permit no decision to be reached
EVI:Four:surmount this difficulty. We refer the four-dimensional space-time
EVI:Rotation:Mercury, this rotation is too small to be detected with the delicacy of
EVI:Equivalent:preference in this sense, and they should be exactly equivalent to _K_
REL:Process:Arrangement
EVI:Importance:problem of the greatest importance, the early solution of which is to
SEQ:Ebook:Nearly
EVI:Railway:the points _A, B_ and _C_ of the railway line (co-ordinate system) and
SEQ:Advent:Relativity
SEQ:Planet:Such
SEQ:Position:Four
EVI:Provided:for the formulation of natural laws, provided that they are in a state
CON:High
EVI:Successful:successful.
EVI:System:IV. THE GALILEIAN SYSTEM OF CO-ORDINATES
SEQ:Places:Simultaneously
EVI:System:consideration behave more nearly like a Euclidean system, the smaller
EVI:Lines:[27] The displacement of spectral lines towards the red end of the
EVI:Many:line (_e.g._ along the floor of the carriage) as many times as is
SEQ:Fourth:Equation
SEQ:Composed:Individual
SEQ:Forth:General
CON:Language
SEQ:Unlimited:Domain
SEQ:Constitute:Euclidean
SEQ:Bodies:Follows
SEQ:Relative:Carriage
EVI:Convinced:resulted in physicists becoming convinced that there are no such things
EVI:Continuum:reality, the description of the time-space continuum by means of Gauss
CON:Spatial
SEQ:Laws:Fundamental
EVI:Mean:appreciate with sufficient clearness what I mean here by “neighbouring”
SEQ:Insert:Particular
CON:Temptation
EVI:Geometrical:detecting the effect of temperature than the geometrical behaviour of
EVI:Every:justified, every intellect which strives after generalisation must feel
EVI:Only:conveys to us, every motion must be considered only as a relative
EVI:Wonderful:delicacy of detail little short of wonderful. The principle of
EVI:Four:four-dimensional space-time continuum.
SEQ:Perceives:Flashes
REL:Capable:Being
SEQ:Certain:Conceptions
SEQ:Between:Mutually
EVI:Lies:observations, and it is just here that the “truth” of the theory lies.
SEQ:Rotating:Reference
EVI:Creating:works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
SEQ:Motion:Taking
REL:Arrangement:Little
EVI:Does:_in vacuo_ does not contradict the principle of relativity? In other
EVI:Traverses:are in a position to say: The stone traverses a straight line relative
SEQ:Behaviour:Dependent
SEQ:Point:Shown
CON:Part
SEQ:Expresses:Theorem
SEQ:Distribute:Redistribute
EVI:Three:analogy, namely, the three-dimensional spherical space which was
SEQ:States:Where
EVI:Reference:other reference-bodies (or their states of motion)? _What is the reason
CON:Mirrors
REL:Laws:Fundamental
EVI:Body:_i.e._ a rigid body the state of motion of which is so chosen that the
EVI:Relativity:according to Section XXI the general theory of relativity cannot retain
CON:Irregular
EVI:Original:My original considerations on the subject were based on two hypotheses:
SEQ:Though:Must
EVI:Executing:point to point without executing “jumps.” I am sure the reader will
EVI:Reason:for this reason electrostatics is overthrown by the field-equations of
SEQ:Motions:Points
EVI:Fact:doing this. The force acting on himself, and in fact on all other
EVI:Questions:with experience (Riemann, Helmholtz). These questions have already been
CON:Bears
SEQ:Being:Proportional
EVI:Same:continuum. In the same way, any such lines in our continuum correspond
EVI:Modification:part, however, this modification affects only the laws for rapid
SEQ:Description:Gauss
CON:Things
EVI:Does:if he does not wish to be laid out full length on the floor. He is then
EVI:Astronomy:astronomy are to maintain their clearness, the physical meaning of
SEQ:Through:Tube
SEQ:True:Important
CON:Perihelial
EVI:Long:very long train travelling along the rails with the constant velocity v
EVI:First:diminishes to zero. At first, the straight lines which radiate from the
SEQ:Electricity:Present
EVI:Accompanying:_T_ (see the accompanying diagram, Fig. 3) when the liquid above
EVI:Remarked:perceptible in terrestrial experiments. We have already remarked in
EVI:Imagine:handling the problem can be arrived at in the following way. We imagine
EVI:Experience:matter as being something that is known. We know from experience that,
EVI:Bound:agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
EVI:Only:continuum with reference to the measuring-rods, but only in this case,
EVI:Project:assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™’s
EVI:Relativity:the fact that the theory of relativity enables us to predict the
SEQ:Than:Geometrical
SEQ:Attribute:Different
SEQ:Exists:Reference
EVI:Emitted:and the light rays emitted by the flashes of lightning _A_ and _B_
SEQ:Piece:Plane
SEQ:Slightly:Piece
EVI:Place:1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
SEQ:Tacitly:Made
SEQ:Line:Interval
SEQ:Equations:Gravitation
EVI:State:U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.
EVI:Grazing:estimated magnitude for light rays passing the sun at grazing incidence
EVI:Proves:π exactly. This proves that the propositions of Euclidean geometry
EVI:Start:*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK RELATIVITY: THE SPECIAL AND GENERAL THEORY ***
SEQ:Requirements:Uniform
SEQ:Treating:Multi
SEQ:Concerning:Copyright
CON:Explained
EVI:Small:which, in general, is built up logically from a small number of
SEQ:Objection:Importance
SEQ:Placed:Axis
EVI:Have:relative to _K_, we then have
SEQ:Regarded:Motion
SEQ:Confirmed:Theory
SEQ:Inclined:Accept
EVI:Given:But in addition to K, all bodies of reference _K′_ should be given
SEQ:Whole:Regarded
EVI:Space:of our space without coming into conflict with the laws of thought or
SEQ:Same:Element
CON:Suggestive
SEQ:Lorentz:Equations
EVI:Trademark:(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
REL:Ought:Obtain
EVI:Tenet:tenet thus: If, relative to _K_, _K′_ is a uniformly moving co-ordinate
EVI:System:year, the earth cannot be at rest relative to the hypothetical system
SEQ:Snapshot:Means
SEQ:Disposal:Practice
EVI:Seen:seen from a reference-body _K′_ which is accelerated relatively to _K_.
EVI:Even:events with respect to _K′_ does not in general vanish, even when the
SEQ:Means:Nothing
SEQ:Suppose:Friend
EVI:Compelled:(retardation) of the carriage. But he is compelled by nobody to refer
EVI:Instance:however, that this anxiety is unfounded. Let us consider, for instance,
SEQ:Modification:Abstract
SEQ:Introduce:Imaginary
SEQ:Transformation:Interpret
SEQ:Situated:Straight
EVI:Light:The velocity of propagation ot a ray of light relative to the carriage
SEQ:Light:Just
SEQ:Agreement:Observation
SEQ:Direction:Continuously
SEQ:Multi:Dimensional
SEQ:Reaction:Floor
EVI:Chest:But how does the man in the chest regard the Process? The acceleration
EVI:Differences:differences for these two events are _dx′, dy′, dz′, dt′_. Then these
EVI:Condition:independent of the position and the condition of motion of the system
EVI:Idea:in all positions and in every orientation. Hence the idea of a straight
EVI:View:the table, it is possible quite naturally to maintain the point of view
SEQ:Coincide:Observation
EVI:Scene:the scene of any event will be determined (for the main part) by the
EVI:Despite:gravitational field exists for the man in the chest, despite the fact
SEQ:Disappears:Because
EVI:Planet:seconds of arc per century for the planet Mercury, but for the other
SEQ:Considerable:Effort
EVI:When:equations of the same form when, by making use of the Lorentz
REL:Equations:Such
EVI:Paid:possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
EVI:Perform:statement, because they mean that they can perform the constructions of
SEQ:Ourselves:Independent
EVI:Phenomena:_equivalent_ for the description of natural phenomena. In this case we
EVI:Difference:differences _dx, dy, dz_ and the time-difference _dt_. With reference
SEQ:Away:Under
SEQ:Former:Case
EVI:Universal:they are nothing more than the expression of the universal validity of
SEQ:Course:Order
SEQ:General:Discussion
SEQ:Bodies:Change
EVI:Circumference:I admit that the ratio of the circumference _c_ of a circle to its
EVI:Space:space, physics becomes, as it were, an “existence” in the
CON:Charitable
EVI:Paragraph:full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.
EVI:Coincide:Fig. 2, the _x_-axes of both systems permanently coincide. In the
EVI:Hundredth:[8] _e.g._ the middle of the first and of the hundredth carriage.
EVI:Ordinates:_x_4 (co-ordinates), which have not the least direct physical
SEQ:Follows:Referred
SEQ:Neither:Takes
CON:Exerted
CON:Local
SEQ:Work:Within
REL:Mathematically:Assume
EVI:Reference:itself as reference-body (co-ordinate system). An observer in the train
CON:Orbit
CON:Email
EVI:Certain:which gives the “mollusc” a certain comprehensibility as compared with
EVI:Rather:theory rather requires that the universe should have a kind of centre
SEQ:Know:Necessary
SEQ:Observe:Happen
EVI:Does:Even though classical mechanics does not supply us with a sufficiently
SEQ:Constant:Varies
EVI:Other:indeed every other process) to a rigid reference-body (co-ordinate
EVI:Determined:properties of space are not independent, but they are determined by
EVI:Rotary:orbital motion. The value obtained for this rotary movement of the
EVI:Surfaces:solid bodies. In every such framework we imagine three surfaces
EVI:About:subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
EVI:Reference:for instance, impossible to choose a body of reference such that, as
EVI:Position:are in a position to say: The stone traverses a straight line relative
SEQ:Satisfied:Assumption
EVI:Because:not hold with respect to the non-uniformly moving carriage. Because of
EVI:Relativity:XIV. The Heuristic Value of the Theory of Relativity
SEQ:Most:Careful
SEQ:Michelson:Devised
EVI:Curves:in the diagram. Between the curves _u_ = 1 and _u_ = 2 we must imagine
CON:Keep
EVI:World:point-event a “world-point.” From a “happening” in three-dimensional
EVI:Work:any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
REL:Advances:Accordance
SEQ:Compared:Unity
EVI:Must:numbers. I only need state how many rods I must pass over when,
EVI:Propagation:propagation of light. With this and with a second difficulty prevailing
SEQ:Original:Publication
EVI:Time:We suppose a light-signal sent out from the origin of _K_ at the time
CON:Conceptions
SEQ:Traversed:Stone
SEQ:Depend:Either
SEQ:Lorentz:Electrodynamical
SEQ:Motion:Electron
EVI:Gutenberg:from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
EVI:Theory:Part II: The General Theory of Relativity
SEQ:Should:Have
EVI:Physics:of theoretical physics. The work presumes a standard of education
SEQ:Doubtless:Admit
EVI:Every:The following statements hold generally: Every physical description
SEQ:Vision:Goal
SEQ:Defect:Attaching
EVI:Extent:considered to some extent as a confirmation of the theory.
EVI:Several:Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
SEQ:Difficulty:Attending
EVI:Pointing:rectangular co-ordinate system by a new system with its axes pointing
SEQ:Perhaps:Reader
EVI:Theorem:THEOREM OF THE ADDITION OF VELOCITIES. THE EXPERIMENT OF FIZEAU
SEQ:Large:Portion
SEQ:Place:Indirectly
EVI:Relativity:solution of which the general theory of relativity supplies the key,
EVI:Case:case. We can only conclude that the special theory of relativity cannot
EVI:Time:THE SPACE-TIME CONTINUUM OF THE GENERAL THEORY OF RELATIVITY IS NOT A
SEQ:Relative:Practically
EVI:Ordinate:[12] As judged from a co-ordinate system moving with the body.
SEQ:Window:Railway
EVI:Always:magnitudes always fulfill the condition.[21]
EVI:Ideas:ideas correspond to more or less exact objects in nature, and these
CON:Already
EVI:Attached:rigidly attached to a rigid body. Referred to a system of co-ordinates,
CON:Building
EVI:Perfectly:definite positive answer, and to a perfectly definite transformation
EVI:Able:able to hold its own when tested by experience.
EVI:Appertaining:empirical evidence appertaining to them which has hitherto been
SEQ:Calculation:Find
EVI:Appreciably:in its individual parts, but which nowhere departs appreciably from a
SEQ:Rest:Relatively
CON:Systematic
SEQ:Words:However
EVI:Only:to many points in motion. The only statements having regard to these
EVI:Carriage:transferred to our old friend the railway carriage, which is travelling
SEQ:Gutenberg:Works
EVI:Relativity:This is a definite mathematical condition that the theory of relativity
SEQ:Mollusc:Main
CON:Shortened
EVI:Dilemma:If we drop these hypotheses, then the dilemma of Section VII
SEQ:Sense:Also
EVI:Sense:preference in this sense, and they should be exactly equivalent to _K_
EVI:Plane:exceedingly slowly in the plane of the orbit and in the sense of the
SEQ:Universe:Ought
EVI:Rest:regarding _K_ as at rest with respect to a hypothetical æther of space.
EVI:Reality:absolute physical reality to non-uniform motion, in opposition to the
CON:Diagonals
EVI:Continuum:an example of a two-dimensional continuum. Just as it was there
CON:Cathode
SEQ:Appears:Nothing
SEQ:Time:Ordinate
EVI:Theorem:classical mechanics. This theorem can also be deduced readily from the
EVI:Measured:The distance between these points A and B is then measured by repeated
EVI:Purpose:significance, but only serve the purpose of numbering the points of the
EVI:Archive:Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
EVI:Points:two “counter-points” are identical (indistinguishable from each other).
EVI:Show:simultaneous _relatively to the train?_ We shall show directly that the
EVI:Downloading:agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
SEQ:Practically:Rigid
SEQ:Purely:Empirical
EVI:Continuum:space-time continuum of the theory of relativity, in its most essential
CON:Charges
EVI:Archive:Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
EVI:Handling:handling the problem can be arrived at in the following way. We imagine
EVI:Place:relation to the train, when we know the place and time of the event
EVI:Forth:trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.
CON:Drop
SEQ:Influenced:Only
REL:Assumption:Hypotheses
SEQ:Relative:Suppose
SEQ:When:Points
EVI:Initial:science has emerged from its initial stages, theoretical advances are
EVI:Whose:_A′_ and _B′_ the two points on the train whose distance apart is
SEQ:Required:Distance
SEQ:Namely:Every
EVI:Xxiii:In Section XXIII it has been shown that in a system _K′_ which is in
EVI:Square:and for still greater velocities the square-root becomes imaginary.
EVI:Remaining:arrangement of the remaining two sides of the square is already
SEQ:Material:Psychological
EVI:Assumption:pair of events _A, C_ is also satisfied. This assumption is a physical
CON:Marked
SEQ:Value:Same
EVI:Chest:middle of the lid of the chest and the rope which is attached to it,
SEQ:Works:Possessed
EVI:Incidental:Before we deal with this, we shall introduce the following incidental
SEQ:Part:Continuum
EVI:Zero:differs from zero, however small may be that difference, then the
REL:Days:Receipt
EVI:Clocks:no avail in the general theory of relativity. The motion of clocks is
CON:Statistical
EVI:Gutenberg:obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
SEQ:Serious:Reflection
EVI:Increased:the process, has, as a consequence, its energy increased by an amount
SEQ:Motion:Earth
EVI:Transmitted:Since the same light-signal has to be transmitted relative to _K′_ with
EVI:Here:motion here taking place in the following two forms, both of which are
EVI:Result:and Bachem (Bonn), as a result of their own measurements and those of
EVI:Stored:electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
EVI:Inertial:gravitational to the inertial mass must likewise be the same for all
EVI:Attention:which has been engaging our attention here, in a paper by E. Freundlich
EVI:Defects:contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
EVI:Difficulty:fundamental difficulty attending classical celestial mechanics, which,
EVI:Investigation:A few years later Hubble showed, by a special investigation of the
SEQ:Considerations:Principle
EVI:Nevertheless:density of matter, although very variable in detail, is nevertheless on
EVI:Mean:clearness in no mean measure.
EVI:Thus:the equality of inertial and gravitational mass. Thus we have obtained
EVI:Cannot:cannot hold exactly on the rotating disc, nor in general in a
SEQ:What:Reference
SEQ:Permission:Copyright
EVI:Line:embankment, is uniform and in a straight line. If we were to observe
EVI:Being:into being something physically real in the space around it, that
EVI:Electronic:Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
EVI:Independent:laws appeared to be quite independent of each other. By means of the
SEQ:Simultaneous:Reference
SEQ:Also:Freely
EVI:Must:justified, every intellect which strives after generalisation must feel
EVI:Such:plane: something like the rippled surface of a lake. Such a universe
EVI:Derived:[21] Cf. Appendixes I and II. The relations which are derived there
SEQ:Case:Thus
EVI:More:the more recent development of electrodynamics and optics it became
EVI:Events:Events which are simultaneous with reference to the embankment are not
SEQ:Without:Permission
EVI:Average:proportional to the mass _m_. If, on the average, the mass density ρ0
SEQ:Resulted:Physicists
EVI:Based:Moreover, the considerations of Section VI are based on yet a second
EVI:Rest:a disc which is at rest with respect to _K_, this operation would yield
EVI:Draw:matter. Thus we can draw conclusions about the geometrical structure of
EVI:Trademark:copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
CON:Meet
EVI:Continuum:“Euclidean” four-dimensional continuum, a result which follows from the
SEQ:Copy:Upon
SEQ:Motion:Physically
SEQ:Satisficd:Identically
CON:Believes
SEQ:System:Such
EVI:Appeared:clearness, it appeared to me inevitable that I should repeat myself
EVI:Ordinates:as four-dimensional Cartesian co-ordinates. This was possible on the
SEQ:Forces:Another
EVI:Observers:than he will see that emitted from _A_. Observers who take the railway
EVI:Centre:proportionally to the distance from the centre as we proceed outwards.
SEQ:Disclose:These
SEQ:Section:General
REL:Respect:These
EVI:Body:points on a practically rigid body always correspond to the same
SEQ:Ocean:Space
EVI:Centre:whom we will imagine sitting alongside his clock at the centre of the
EVI:Defect:defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
SEQ:Obtained:Equations
SEQ:Body:Mass
CON:Vary
SEQ:Sense:Classical
SEQ:Measurement:Attained
SEQ:Light:Transmitted
EVI:Field:Now, as judged from the disc, the latter is in a gravitational field of
EVI:Dimensional:four-dimensional space-time continuum.
EVI:Carriage:although the carriage changes its position relative to the embankment
SEQ:System:Smaller
EVI:Same:dials. It is just the same in the case of space-measurements by means
EVI:Struck:Lightning has struck the rails on our railway embankment at two places
SEQ:Presentation:Physical
EVI:Discarded:arbitrary? The method of Cartesian coordinates must then be discarded,
SEQ:Appear:Viewed
SEQ:Associated:Also
EVI:Beyond:existence of the effect almost beyond doubt, while other investigators,
SEQ:Strange:Difficulty
SEQ:Whatever:Kind
CON:Open
SEQ:Desire:Adhere
SEQ:Other:Owing
SEQ:Incomplete:Suggestion
SEQ:Imagine:Train
CON:Energy
CON:Identify
EVI:Maintained:state of motion,” cannot be maintained, because the use of rigid
EVI:Metre:length of the metre-rod relatively to the system _K_? In order to learn
SEQ:Gravitational:Field
CON:Performances
SEQ:Line:Three
SEQ:Thus:Relative
EVI:Constitute:In practice, the rigid surfaces which constitute the system of
EVI:Statements:same difficulty with all physical statements in which the conception
SEQ:Interpreting:Empirical
CON:Enlightened
EVI:Consider:simple conditions. Let us consider two neighbouring events, the
EVI:Part:royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
EVI:Respect:of a special kind is then present with respect to these bodies (cf.
EVI:Given:following form. If we are given a surface (_e.g._ an ellipsoid) in
EVI:Observer:theory of gravitation.[18] But since the observer believes in the
SEQ:Embankment:Motion
SEQ:Middle:First
EVI:Agreement:capable of being tested, the agreement between the theories may be so
EVI:Magnitudes:where _g_11, _g_12, _g_22, are magnitudes which depend in a perfectly
SEQ:Using:Part
EVI:General:enable us to answer this question. But the general theory of relativity
CON:Whose
SEQ:Infinitely:Large
EVI:Must:the gravitational field in space must be a perfectly definite one, in
SEQ:Appears:Extraneous
EVI:Original:of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
SEQ:Ordinates:Also
CON:Committing
EVI:Must:already mentioned, this is self-evident, but it must not be confused
SEQ:Inertia:Certainly
SEQ:Terms:Making
SEQ:Suggestion:Cannot
EVI:Unless:repulsions, unless there are forces of another kind operating between
SEQ:Followed:Special
EVI:Subject:by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
EVI:Path:path of the same ray of light is no longer a straight line when we
EVI:First:_K_. By means of the first equation of the Lorentz transformation the
EVI:Important:experience. On this point we are enlightened by a most important
EVI:Information:Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
EVI:Equations:0. For this value of _t_ we then obtain from the first of the equations
EVI:Must:Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
SEQ:Corner:Four
SEQ:Relativity:Forward
EVI:Axioms:fundamental assumptions, the so-called axioms. We call such a system of
EVI:Here:development of the theory of relativity, does not lie here. It is to be
SEQ:Fact:Three
EVI:Lorentz:the Maxwell-Lorentz theory, which are at the same time arguments in
SEQ:Magnitudes:Event
EVI:Eddington:astronomers (Eddington, Cottingham, Crommelin, Davidson), in order to
EVI:Work:redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
EVI:Greatest:greatest distance of the planet from the sun.
EVI:Independent:properties of space are not independent, but they are determined by
SEQ:Pages:Current
EVI:Situated:situated. Now in reality (considered with reference to the railway
CON:Root
CON:Times
EVI:Dimensional:undertook the task of treating this two-dimensional geometry from
CON:Ascribed
EVI:Illustration:motion. Returning to the illustration we have frequently used of the
EVI:Infinitely:transformation by substituting an infinitely large value for the
EVI:Examining:(electrons) of very small inertia and large velocity. By examining the
EVI:Redistribution:by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
CON:Rails
SEQ:Said:Snapshots
REL:Transmission:Acquired
SEQ:Proportionally:Distance
REL:Interpretation:Quite
EVI:Measured:can be measured up by means of a measuring-rod. Similarly, this
SEQ:Then:Offer
CON:Asks
EVI:Part:PART III: CONSIDERATIONS ON THE UNIVERSE AS A WHOLE
EVI:Required:determine the length of the pole we should have required in order to
CON:Interest
EVI:Present:pains in his endeavour to present the main ideas in the simplest and
EVI:Importance:exhibits a most remarkable property, which is of fundamental importance
REL:Electrodynamical:Optical
EVI:Transferred:transferred to our old friend the railway carriage, which is travelling
SEQ:Particular:Assumption
SEQ:Measured:Embankment
EVI:Exact:ideas correspond to more or less exact objects in nature, and these
CON:Proceeding
EVI:Xxvi:interpretation, and which, according to Section XXVI, can be regarded
SEQ:Many:Small
EVI:Century:half a century ago, and which has been repeated since then by some of
SEQ:Special:Form
EVI:Different:minimum. If instead of Newton’s law we insert a somewhat different law
EVI:Body:simultaneity). Every reference-body (co-ordinate system) has its own
SEQ:These:Requirements
SEQ:Where:Represents
SEQ:Mechanics:Special
SEQ:These:General
SEQ:Foregoing:Pages
SEQ:Identical:Settings
EVI:Body:consider it with reference to the accelerated chest (reference-body
SEQ:Times:Relative
SEQ:Line:Four
EVI:Field:field influences the process studied.
SEQ:Owns:Compilation
EVI:Surprised:surprised at this, even if I have never seen either a gas range or a
SEQ:Experienced:Path
SEQ:Consequence:What
EVI:Until:physicist until he has the possibility of discovering whether or not it
SEQ:Respect:Assume
SEQ:Different:Colours
EVI:Differentiate:and in the special theory of relativity we therefore differentiate
SEQ:Consider:Extent
SEQ:More:General
SEQ:Discussion:Most
SEQ:Also:Loses
EVI:Therefore:the chest. He must therefore take up this pressure by means of his legs
EVI:Points:If everything has really gone smoothly, then I say that the points of
EVI:Arrive:flash _A_. We thus arrive at the important result:
EVI:Body:with respect to the accelerated reference-body _K′_ (chest). This
EVI:Fasten:naturally does not exist for this observer. He must fasten himself with
EVI:Regarded:interpretation, and which, according to Section XXVI, can be regarded
SEQ:Measurement:Length
SEQ:Last:Undoubtedly
CON:Compare
EVI:Therefore:velocity of light _c_. The velocity must therefore always remain less
EVI:Answer:enable us to answer this question. But the general theory of relativity
SEQ:Rope:Inner
SEQ:Removed:Stars
REL:Deflection:Light
EVI:Small:influenced only to an exceedingly small extent by masses even of the
SEQ:Measuring:Similarly
SEQ:Rods:Performed
REL:Means:Comparatively
EVI:Simply:numbers to them, in such a manner, that we simply have:
CON:Provide
EVI:Here:Poincaré, whereas I can only touch on them briefly here.
EVI:Have:The principle we have made use of not only maintains that we may
SEQ:Influences:Mentioned
EVI:Less:hypothesis (1) without introducing the less natural cosmological term
EVI:Truth:propositions is thus reduced to one of the “truth” of the axioms. Now
EVI:Together:together, and discussed in detail from the standpoint of the question
SEQ:Effect:About
SEQ:Must:Able
EVI:Online:of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online
CON:Conceive
EVI:Light:colour of the light reaching us from them. The latter effect manifests
EVI:Time:We are acquainted with space-time domains which behave (approximately)
EVI:Diverge:starting point diverge farther and farther from one another, but later
EVI:Interval:may indicate the distance (line-interval) between _P_ and _P′_, as
EVI:Results:The results of the measurements confirmed the theory in a thoroughly
EVI:Rigid:Euclidean properties; thus the fictitious rigid body of reference is of
CON:Minimum
EVI:Clock:between the position of the clock and the centre of the disc by φ,
CON:Publication
SEQ:Apparent:Incompatibility
EVI:Part:system _K_, the liquid plays the part of the carriage or of the
EVI:Illustration:a specific illustration in Section XXIII, we found that the presence of
SEQ:Ingenious:Considerations
CON:Period
SEQ:Outside:Plane
SEQ:Minimum:Maximum
EVI:Motion:uniform motion. At all events it is clear that the Galileian law does
SEQ:Relativity:Holds
EVI:Quickly:general, in every gravitational field, a clock will go more quickly or
EVI:Point:to any physical theory, than that it should of itself point out the way
EVI:Just:others; for any one of these laws would be founded just as little on
EVI:Definite:data does not allow of any definite decision being arrived at, as to
EVI:Railway:Let us suppose our old friend the railway carriage to be travelling
SEQ:Only:Curve
EVI:Paragraphs:either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
SEQ:Kind:However
EVI:Density:between the space-expanse of the universe and the average density of
SEQ:Uniquely:Determined
EVI:Start:they start off from rest or with the same initial velocity. This law,
SEQ:Rope:Attached
EVI:Electronic:electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
CON:Doing
EVI:Have:The second class of facts to which we have alluded has reference to the
SEQ:Rest:Same
EVI:Only:the universe only if we base our considerations on the state of the
SEQ:Away:Centre
EVI:Except:1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
SEQ:Find:Hold
EVI:Relativity:accordance with the special theory of relativity, certain co-ordinate
EVI:Agreement:the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
EVI:Attached:way, that only one meaning can be attached to the assignment, and that
SEQ:Origin:Have
EVI:Point:the carriage, we introduce a point moving relatively to the co-ordinate
SEQ:Recognised:Manner
CON:Average
SEQ:Round:Common
SEQ:Written:Confirmation
SEQ:Know:Experience
EVI:Ways:extra-galactic nebulae (“milky ways”), that the spectral lines emitted
EVI:According:According to the general theory of relativity, the major axis of the
SEQ:Infinite:Ocean
SEQ:Position:Train
SEQ:Force:Inertial
EVI:Quantity:instead of the real quantity _t_, we can regard the space-time
CON:Multi
EVI:Exactly:exactly to the three space co-ordinates in Euclidean geometry. It must
EVI:When:the same spectral lines when they are produced by a terrestrial source
EVI:Statement:I ask you whether there is sense in this statement, you will answer my
SEQ:Cost:Almost
SEQ:Side:Then
SEQ:Constant:Velocity
EVI:Website:This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
SEQ:Possibility:Mode
SEQ:Something:About
SEQ:Meaning:Natural
CON:Occurrence
EVI:Reduced:propositions is thus reduced to one of the “truth” of the axioms. Now
EVI:Than:than he will see that emitted from _A_. Observers who take the railway
EVI:Also:different distances from the centre of the disc. This result is also
EVI:Carriage:(_a_) The carriage is in motion relative to the embankment,
EVI:Simply:material points with reference to _K′_ simply by mathematical
SEQ:Also:Cases
EVI:Fundamental:interpretation rests on the fundamental property of the gravitational
EVI:Electronic:defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
CON:Accord
EVI:Clocks:In the first place, we see from this expression that two clocks of
EVI:Written:we have just written down does not hold in reality. For the time being,
EVI:Employees:1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
EVI:United:so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
EVI:Transformation:Lorentz transformation:
EVI:Complication:at the cost of a modification and complication of Newton’s law which
REL:Regard:These
EVI:First:Undaunted by the [first world] war and by difficulties of both a
EVI:Thanks:Thanks to: Einstein Reference Archive (marxists.org)
EVI:Shows:co-ordinates have no significance? More careful consideration shows,
EVI:Construction:carried out by means of the rods _e.g._ the lattice construction,
EVI:Merits:of its merits for the description of natural phenomena) in calling this
SEQ:Gauss:Have
SEQ:Frequency:Atom
EVI:Other:reason why we must wait for a total eclipse is because at every other
SEQ:Railway:Line
SEQ:Velocity:Rotation
EVI:Days:you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
EVI:Squares:squares made up of rods, _i.e._ its volume (surface) is infinite. If
EVI:Motion:law, the motion would still take place in such a manner that the
EVI:Still:fifteenth re-printing of this book; and as a result is still under
SEQ:Mathematician:Seized
EVI:Theory:line with the demands of the special theory of relativity. For the main
EVI:Mean:Space is a three-dimensional continuum. By this we mean that it is
SEQ:Universe:Possessing
EVI:Body:point on the trajectory it must be stated at what time the body is
SEQ:Continuously:Reduced
EVI:Respect:with more respect than love—the magnificent structure, on the lofty
EVI:Real:reality the detailed distribution of matter is not uniform, the real
EVI:Goal:But between the clear vision of this goal and its actual realisation it
EVI:Points:amount are assigned to adjacent points. The Gaussian coordinate system
CON:Disappearance
EVI:Section:general principle of relativity given in Section XVIII by an exact
EVI:Transformation:The Galilei transformation can be obtained from the Lorentz
CON:Einstein
EVI:Allows:90°) which allows him visually to observe both places _A_ and _B_ at
EVI:Body:accelerated body. If now gravitation is the cause of the acceleration,
SEQ:System:Equation
EVI:Points:embankment. These points _A_ and _B_ of the embankment can be
SEQ:Conception:Indeed
EVI:Gravitational:known that a gravitational field influences the movement of bodies in
EVI:Square:quadrilateral figure (a square), the diagonals of which are equally
SEQ:Equation:Gives
SEQ:Velocity:Respect
SEQ:Defined:Physical
EVI:Uniformly:etc., which are moving uniformly relative to each other, will not be
EVI:Direction:and in the direction indicated in Fig 1. People travelling in this
REL:Possible:Describe
SEQ:Method:Suggests
EVI:Pole:(here the length of the pole measured with the measuring-rod) instead
EVI:Clocks:of the encounter of the hands of clocks with particular points on the
SEQ:Second:Argument
EVI:Assume:however, we shall assume its correctness.
SEQ:Numbers:Namely
EVI:Seconds:seconds of arc per century for the planet Mercury, but for the other
EVI:Such:with such exactness in one domain of phenomena, and yet should be
EVI:Most:gravitational field is absent. But the most attractive problem, to the
EVI:Gradually:it thenceforward gradually decreases to zero for still further
EVI:Known:matter as being something that is known. We know from experience that,
SEQ:Minkowski:Also
EVI:Sent:Principe (West Africa)—and sent several of Britain’s most celebrated
EVI:Information:furnish us with important information as to the mass of the heavenly
EVI:Associate:is it possible to associate the co-ordinates _x_1 . . _x_4. with the
EVI:Instance:medium. If, for instance, a magnet attracts a piece of iron, we cannot
EVI:Have:compared with the velocity of light. We have experience of such rapid
EVI:Motion:contraction of the rod as a consequence of its motion.
SEQ:Moreover:Stage
EVI:Depends:Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread
EVI:Virtue:Now in virtue of its motion in an orbit round the sun, our earth is
EVI:Have:In point of fact, astronomers have found that the theory of Newton does
EVI:Transformation:The Lorentz transformation represented by (8) and (9) still requires to
EVI:More:more inclined to reject the principle of relativity, in spite of the
EVI:Minkowski:MINKOWSKI’S FOUR-DIMENSIONAL SPACE
EVI:Result:by _x_1, _x_2, _x_3, _x_4, we also obtain the result that
EVI:Time:another, shall indicate position and time directly. Such was the
REL:Evershed:Schwarzschild
SEQ:Always:Possible
EVI:Values:increasing values of the radius. During this process the area of the
SEQ:Ebooks:Protected
SEQ:Rectangular:Ordinate
SEQ:Able:Hold
EVI:Light:velocity of light _c_ in the latter transformation.
EVI:Optical:reaches the cloud has not been erected. By means of optical
EVI:Lines:itself in a slight displacement of the spectral lines of the light
EVI:Squares:following. If at any moment three squares meet at a corner, then two
SEQ:Granted:Exempt
EVI:Reaching:assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™’s
SEQ:Shown:System
CON:Found
EVI:Mirrors:should be supplied with an arrangement (_e.g._ two mirrors inclined at
SEQ:Number:Single
EVI:Space:It may be mentioned that there is yet another kind of curved space:
REL:Wish:Charge
EVI:Attributed:attributed the more complicated laws which were supposed to hold
EVI:Derived:facts. Experiment[10] decides in favour of equation (B) derived from
EVI:Supplied:idea of relativity has supplied the laws satisfied by the gravitational
EVI:Place:red ought to take place for spectral lines produced at the surface of
SEQ:Field:Earth
EVI:Brakes:there exists (during the period of application of the brakes) a
EVI:Section:In Section XXII it has been already mentioned that according to the
SEQ:Every:Body
SEQ:Have:Habit
REL:Show:What
EVI:Wonder:Perhaps the reader will wonder why we have placed our “beings” on a
EVI:Theoretical:such nor did it seem natural from a theoretical point of view
EVI:Since:since the equations of the Lorentz transformation were derived
EVI:Main:pains in his endeavour to present the main ideas in the simplest and
EVI:Unable:they are unable to leave it. Their whole universe of observation
EVI:Coincides:end (the end of the rod) coincides with the point _x′_ = 1. What is the
EVI:Gutenberg:Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.
CON:Disposal
EVI:Surface:a system of arbitrary curves (see Fig. 4) drawn on the surface of the
EVI:Before:PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK
SEQ:Years:Produced
EVI:Approach:transmitted to this body, and for this reason the body will approach
EVI:Without:travelling uniformly, and drop a stone on the embankment, without
SEQ:Without:Serious
EVI:Round:the latter, or, more correctly, round the common centre of gravity of
EVI:Project:Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
SEQ:Points:Continues
SEQ:Particular:Value
EVI:About:of this expansion which lies “only” about 109 years ago, while physical
EVI:Produced:red ought to take place for spectral lines produced at the surface of
SEQ:Path:Body
SEQ:Subject:Other
SEQ:Property:Being
EVI:Directly:lead directly to those of the former for the case in which the fields
EVI:Print:Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
SEQ:Perfectly:Definite
EVI:Located:The Foundation’s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
SEQ:Xxvi:Show
EVI:Sense:_B_, and _B_ is simultaneous with _C_ (simultaneous in the sense of
EVI:Time:require to extend our ideas of the space-time continuum still farther.
EVI:Project:does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
SEQ:Great:Precision
CON:Tour
SEQ:What:Said
EVI:Imagine:marble slab. In like manner we imagine a system of _v_-curves drawn on
CON:Renamed
EVI:Light:ray of light possesses the velocity of transmission _c_ relative to the
EVI:Experience:following manner. Experience has led to the conviction that, on the one
EVI:Defined:to the defined “size” or “distance,” small parts of the continuum under
EVI:Essential:not essential that the velocity of translation of _K′_ with respect to
SEQ:Executing:Uniform
EVI:Space:“elliptical space.” It can be regarded as a curved space in which the
SEQ:Then:Determine
SEQ:Theory:Development
EVI:Caprice:be obtained without caprice, however, by taking into consideration the
EVI:Must:We must draw attention here to one of these deviations. According to
SEQ:Rules:Euclidean
CON:Retention
EVI:Other:or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
EVI:Electromagnetic:experience which support the electromagnetic theory also support the
EVI:Each:two “counter-points” are identical (indistinguishable from each other).
EVI:Regards:the same way_ as regards the influence of temperature when they are on
EVI:Scrupulously:the presentation. I adhered scrupulously to the precept of that
CON:Passed
SEQ:Space:Infinite
EVI:Exists:But since a gravitational field exists with respect to this new body of
SEQ:Intellect:Strives
SEQ:Investigation:Important
EVI:Faraday:to imagine—after the manner of Faraday—that the magnet always calls
EVI:Rigid:straight line. Three points _A, B_ and _C_ on a rigid body thus lie in
REL:Permanently:Uniform
EVI:According:embankment _in each second_ of time. But, according to the foregoing
EVI:Associated:associated with the geometrical ideas. In less exact terms we can
SEQ:Recognised:Laws
SEQ:Newton:Small
EVI:Until:radius until the “circumference of the universe” is reached, and that
SEQ:Foci:Orbital
SEQ:Statement:Clear
SEQ:Hold:Good
EVI:Even:be clear even to the non-mathematician that, as a consequence of this
EVI:Field:Relying on his knowledge of the gravitational field (as it was
EVI:Process:instance, that we know the space-time “course” for any natural process
EVI:Contracted:that motion. the contracted length being proportional to the expression
SEQ:Gutenberg:Donate
SEQ:Stars:During
SEQ:Ideas:Certain
EVI:Rigid:rigid measuring-rods performed according to the rules and methods laid
EVI:Itself:railway line. Here the following method suggests itself. If we call
EVI:Embankment:carriage. The velocity _W_ of the man relative to the embankment is
SEQ:Acquired:Characters
CON:Back
EVI:Lieu:opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
EVI:Region:infinite region of emptiness. The stellar universe ought to be a finite
EVI:Straight:embankment, is uniform and in a straight line. If we were to observe
EVI:Ebook:before using this eBook.
SEQ:Find:Known
EVI:Method:This primitive method of place specification deals only with places on
SEQ:Supposed:Travelling
SEQ:Transformation:Exist
CON:Momentary
EVI:Large:(electrons) of very small inertia and large velocity. By examining the
SEQ:Different:Case
SEQ:Constant:Everywhere
EVI:Practice:small for the gravitational fields at our disposal in practice, its
SEQ:Than:However
EVI:Light:from large stars, as compared with the corresponding lines for light
REL:Mission:Project
EVI:Distance:According to the theory of relativity, action at a distance with the
EVI:Flashes:perceives the lightning flashes travels along the length _A_ → _M_ with
EVI:Time:abscissa _x′_ and the time _t′_. We require to find _x′_ and _t′_ when
CON:Step
EVI:Means:only I knew that the light by means of which the observer at _M_
CON:Probability
SEQ:Detailed:Distribution
EVI:Results:The results of the last three sections show that the apparent
CON:Observation
EVI:Limits:these beings is finite and yet has no limits._
EVI:Nothing:In view of this dilemma there appears to be nothing else for it than to
EVI:Follows:therefore follows that the length of a rigid metre-rod moving in the
CON:Necessary
SEQ:Dependent:Direction
SEQ:Time:Given
EVI:According:freely-moving material points continues to take place according to the
EVI:Motion:which possess certain unique states of motion, and which are in uniform
EVI:Light:If every ray of light is propagated relative to the embankment with the
SEQ:Depends:Given
SEQ:Printed:Given
EVI:Have:have σ = 1. It is easily seen that the Lorentz transformation really
SEQ:Ordinates:Actually
SEQ:Revealed:Such
EVI:System:[12] As judged from a co-ordinate system moving with the body.
SEQ:Relativity:Considered
EVI:Confirmed:editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
EVI:About:and of the little rods, about which I can only be thankfully surprised.
EVI:Constituting:constituting the electron remain unchanged during the motion of the
EVI:Time:that suggests itself to us is surely this: As regards space (and time)
EVI:Condition:one condition, that the “readings” which are observed simultaneously on
EVI:Points:Let us consider two particular points on the train [8] travelling along
EVI:Very:where _du_ and _dv_ signify very small numbers. In a similar manner we
EVI:Velocity:In this way we satisfy the postulate of the constancy of the velocity
EVI:Arises:arises for astronomers and physicists, and that is whether the universe
SEQ:Exactly:Proves
EVI:Rigidly:which is rigidly attached to the earth, then, relative to this system,
CON:Returning
EVI:Square:surface by means of a square made up of measuring-rods. If the universe
EVI:Lorentz:This system of equations is known as the “Lorentz transformation.”[9]
EVI:Sense:this sense is founded exclusively on rather incomplete experience. For
EVI:Because:necessarily come into disorder during the heating, because the little
SEQ:Works:Different
EVI:According:According to Gauss, this combined analytical and geometrical mode of
SEQ:Conditions:Have
EVI:Point:every point of the continuum (event) four numbers, _x_1, _x_2, _x_3,
EVI:Results:regarded essentially as magnitudes (results of measurements) capable of
SEQ:Methods:Geometry
SEQ:Empirical:Decision
SEQ:Mentioned:Choice
SEQ:Velocity:Whereas
SEQ:Sphere:Impossible
SEQ:Speculations:Structure
SEQ:Universe:These
EVI:Same:equal to _c_. The same result is obtained for rays of light advancing
CON:Means
EVI:Under:“counter-point” to the starting point. Under such conditions they have
EVI:Untrue:most out-of-the-way proposition of this science to be untrue. But
SEQ:Geometry:Sets
SEQ:Walking:However
REL:Nature:Light
EVI:Laid:sides of the fourth square are already laid, and, as a consequence, the
EVI:Line:path of the same ray of light is no longer a straight line when we
SEQ:Founded:Just
CON:Observe
EVI:Number:considerably reduced the number of independent hypotheses forming the
EVI:Same:forms, in which the time co-ordinate plays exactly the same role as the
EVI:Mass:enough to make themselves perceptible as a change in the inertial mass
SEQ:Actually:Originated
EVI:Sitter:observations of double stars, the Dutch astronomer De Sitter was also
EVI:Something:this bluish something will cause the emission of the steam, or at least
SEQ:Laws:Even
SEQ:Carriage:Because
EVI:Copyright:Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
EVI:Subject:My original considerations on the subject were based on two hypotheses:
EVI:More:co-ordinates have no significance? More careful consideration shows,
EVI:Seconds:the calculated deviations of the stars (in seconds of arc) are set
CON:Domains
REL:Copies:Project
EVI:Meet:the places _A_ and _B_, where the lightning occurs, meet each other at
EVI:Shape:likewise be of arbitrary shape. It follows that a value of _u_ and a
SEQ:Paid:Forth
SEQ:Called:Rays
SEQ:Body:Instance
EVI:Quite:potential φ, hence the result we have obtained will hold quite
EVI:Snapshot:But if the snapshot be taken from _K′_(_t′_ = 0), and if we eliminate
SEQ:Arbitrary:Manner
EVI:Result:rotation. According to a result obtained in Section XII, it follows
CON:Detach
EVI:Plane:spherical “world” and not on a Euclidean plane, for a small part of a
EVI:Dimensional:II. Minkowski’s Four-Dimensional Space (“World”) (supplementary to section XVII)
SEQ:Unjustified:Formal
SEQ:Then:Exists
EVI:Donation:Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
SEQ:Result:Still
CON:Within
EVI:Body:heavenly body would be deviated towards the latter. For a ray of light
EVI:Question:enable us to answer this question. But the general theory of relativity
SEQ:Requires:Rotation
EVI:Here:theory of relativity. As being of particular importance, I mention here
SEQ:Lorentz:Long
SEQ:Such:Field
CON:Curve
SEQ:Uniformly:Reference
EVI:Propositions:that these propositions are true?” Let us proceed to give this question
EVI:Divide:present case we can divide the problem into parts by considering first
EVI:About:generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
EVI:Carriage:positions relative to the body of reference (railway carriage or
EVI:Joining:angle described by the line joining sun and planet during such a period
SEQ:Show:Velocity
EVI:Rough:can thus as a rough approximation arrive at a conclusion as to the
REL:Propositions:Euclidean
REL:Amount:Energy
REL:Means:Optical
SEQ:Essentially:Magnitudes
EVI:According:transmitted according to the equation
EVI:Identically:is satisficd identically. That is to say: If we substitute their
SEQ:Perforce:Gained
SEQ:Come:Disorder
EVI:Direction:another direction. The development of non-Euclidean geometry led to the
EVI:Through:the embankment through a distance _v_ equal numerically to the velocity
EVI:Accessible:freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
SEQ:Walking:Along
EVI:Orbit:Now in virtue of its motion in an orbit round the sun, our earth is
EVI:Classical:variations from the laws of classical mechanics are too small to make
CON:Ordinate
SEQ:General:Nature
EVI:United:in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
EVI:These:time that, in virtue of this definition, these time-values can be
SEQ:Derivation:Lorentz
EVI:Hitherto:we see that the term _mc_2, which has hitherto attracted our attention,
CON:Round
SEQ:Because:Piece
EVI:Event:event to those three plane surfaces. The lengths of these three
EVI:Point:(Gaussian co-ordinates). For example, the point _P_ in the diagram has
EVI:Work:distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
EVI:Placed:purpose we suppose that clocks of identical construction are placed at
EVI:Edge:the centre of the disc has no velocity, whereas the clock at the edge
EVI:Clock:that the latter clock goes at a rate permanently slower than that of
EVI:Symbol:the embankment). We denote this velocity by the symbol _W_, and we then
SEQ:According:Method
SEQ:Surface:Earth
EVI:Gutenberg:free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
EVI:Space:THE SPACE-TIME CONTINUUM OF THE GENERAL THEORY OF RELATIVITY IS NOT A
EVI:Ascertained:empirical laws, from which the general laws can be ascertained by
SEQ:Hold:Distances
EVI:Always:is small compared with unity, the third of these terms is always small
EVI:Position:set in such a manner that a _particular_ position of the pointers of
SEQ:Copyright:These
CON:Indemnity
SEQ:Lines:Produced
SEQ:Taking:Photographs
EVI:Perpendicularly:is moving perpendicularly to the planes of the mirrors from that
EVI:Range:on the range are two pans so much alike that one may be mistaken for
EVI:Constitute:and the time _t_ of the events which constitute the processes of
EVI:Manner:whatsoever, as regards the manner in which it takes place in the
EVI:Fizeau:which agrees with Fizeau’s result.
SEQ:Referred:Original
EVI:Relativity:brought forward against the general principle of relativity at the end
SEQ:Logical:Generalisation
SEQ:Instance:Note
EVI:Possessing:unique in possessing the property that all points on it are equivalent.
REL:Part:Very
SEQ:Still:Requires
SEQ:Transformation:Lorentz
EVI:Holds:that the Galileian law holds with respect to it: A particle left to
EVI:Method:railway line. Here the following method suggests itself. If we call
EVI:Motion:principle immaterial to what reference-body we refer the motion. As
EVI:Marked:measures to make ourselves independent of the existence of marked
EVI:Propagation:influence of the velocity of flow _v_ on the propagation of light is
EVI:Planet:angle described by the line joining sun and planet during such a period
SEQ:Give:Away
REL:Array:Equipment
EVI:Compared:from large stars, as compared with the corresponding lines for light
EVI:Satisfy:In this way we satisfy the postulate of the constancy of the velocity
SEQ:Case:Clearer
SEQ:Purely:Electrodynamical
EVI:Path:curvature being similar to that experienced by the path of a body which
SEQ:Gutenberg:Literary
CON:Test
EVI:Magnitude:Planets of our solar system its magnitude should be so small that it
EVI:Method:arbitrary? The method of Cartesian coordinates must then be discarded,
EVI:System:which is rigidly attached to the earth, then, relative to this system,
EVI:More:form, which renders it yet more clearly intelligible than it is when in
EVI:Possible:description of position, it should be possible by means of numerical
SEQ:Numbering:Points
EVI:Theoretical:In the theoretical treatment of these electrons, we are faced with the
EVI:Lorentz:uniformly with reference to the first, the equations of the Lorentz
SEQ:Indicated:Section
EVI:Says:only says something about the motion of the bodies, but it also
EVI:Represent:represent the motions of the points in question have a particular
EVI:Rods:BEHAVIOUR OF CLOCKS AND MEASURING-RODS ON A ROTATING BODY OF REFERENCE
CON:Useful
EVI:Forms:forms the basis of our considerations.
EVI:Cannot:copyright restrictions so cannot be added without the permission of the
CON:Property
SEQ:Down:Does
CON:World
EVI:Body:train as their reference-body must therefore come to the conclusion
SEQ:Positions:Possessing
EVI:Ordinates:to a system of co-ordinates rigidly attached to the carriage, but
CON:Anything
EVI:Distance:total he covers the distance _W = v + w_ relative to the embankment in
SEQ:Grant:Considerable
EVI:What:point on the trajectory it must be stated at what time the body is
EVI:Structure:structure the largest possible logical unity. The practice, for
SEQ:Even:Need
SEQ:Observer:Beam
EVI:Velocity:velocity of light _c_ (in vacuum) is justifiably believed by the child
EVI:Taking:be obtained without caprice, however, by taking into consideration the
EVI:Unprotected:States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
EVI:Place:the two events took place simultaneously or not.” I cannot be satisfied
EVI:Understand:very exact grasp of this work in order to understand the fundamental
SEQ:Although:Very
EVI:Rotation:where ω represents the angular velocity of rotation of the disc _K′_
EVI:Form:gravitational fields, but only for those of quite special form. It is,
EVI:Contains:This stipulation contains a further physical hypothesis, the validity
CON:Binary
EVI:Cause:“vertically” downwards. If we ask for an opinion of the cause of
EVI:Light:equal to _c_. The same result is obtained for rays of light advancing
EVI:Every:To every point of a continuum are assigned as many numbers (Gaussian
SEQ:Electrodynamics:Least
REL:Manner:Faraday
EVI:Those:those possessing motion of a different kind). In this sense we speak of
CON:Cloud
SEQ:Notable:These
SEQ:Shall:Suppose
SEQ:Have:Then
SEQ:Certain:Comprehensibility
EVI:Principle:Furthermore, the principle of relativity teaches us that, as judged
SEQ:Slightest:Conception
EVI:Must:hypothesis about the law of propagation of light; it must certainly be
EVI:Recognise:experiment, we recognise that there must also be cases in which the
SEQ:Notice:Steam
SEQ:Interpret:Condition
EVI:Step:The next step is to investigate the space-time behaviour of the
SEQ:Information:Found
EVI:Demand:the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
CON:Analysis
EVI:Enable:enable us to answer this question. But the general theory of relativity
SEQ:Electrostatics:Overthrown
SEQ:Atom:Absorbs
EVI:Relative:But the metre-rod is moving with the velocity _v_ relative to _K_. It
EVI:Gravitational:the influence of the gravitational field on the course of all those
EVI:Require:require to extend our ideas of the space-time continuum still farther.
SEQ:Some:Extent
REL:Also:Everyday
SEQ:Radius:Known
EVI:Process:the basis of a logical process, the justification of which we feel
EVI:Reached:At all events, a definite decision will be reached during the next few
EVI:Asserts:self-evident). Our principle rather asserts what follows: If we
CON:Satisfactorily
EVI:Plays:_c_ plays the part of an unattainable limiting velocity.
EVI:Consequential:LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
EVI:Idea:undergone by the fundamental idea of the general theory of relativity
SEQ:Modification:These
EVI:Section:[17] This follows from a generalisation of the discussion in Section
CON:Suspended
SEQ:Donations:Determine
EVI:Forth:prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
SEQ:Slab:Euclidean
EVI:Must:its permanent existence must be characterised by an infinitely large
EVI:Replace:replace the usual time co-ordinate t by an imaginary magnitude
EVI:Attaching:the defect attaching to classical mechanics which was brought to light
SEQ:Energy:Possessed
EVI:Systems:systems, we should have chosen _one_ (_K0_) of a particular state of
SEQ:Consideration:World
SEQ:Theoretical:Presentation
EVI:Carriage:not hold with respect to the non-uniformly moving carriage. Because of
CON:Incompatibilitiy
EVI:Some:dissatisfied until I have discovered some circumstance to which I can
CON:Compressed
EVI:Coordinates:space coordinates. It is for this reason that we have been in the habit
SEQ:Statements:Large
SEQ:Lucidity:Helmholtz
SEQ:Generalisation:Must
EVI:Moving:reference-body _K′_ moving uniformly with respect to _K_, if we assume
EVI:Expansion:the galactic line-shift discovered by Hubble as an expansion (which can
SEQ:Possessing:Property
SEQ:Also:Suffer
SEQ:Obtained:Section
SEQ:Thus:Facts
EVI:Footpath:footpath the other. Each of the observers determines the position on
EVI:Mass:the inertial mass of a body is not a constant but varies according to
EVI:Considerable:considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
REL:Decides:Favour
SEQ:Double:Stars
SEQ:Such:States
SEQ:Disregard:Influences
SEQ:Value:Time
EVI:Continuum:belongs to a Euclidean continuum of three dimensions. If we imagine
EVI:Chosen:chosen so that they are spatially parallel to those of _K_. It is also
SEQ:Takes:Place
CON:Psychological
EVI:More:for the following reason. As a result of the more careful study of
EVI:Seeliger:In order to escape this dilemma, Seeliger suggested a modification of
SEQ:Stars:Appear
EVI:Distance:best plan would be to assign the distance one to two points on the
EVI:Many:We must experience many such surprises if the construction is to be
SEQ:Condition:Theory
EVI:Compliance:necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
SEQ:Whatsoever:Structure
SEQ:Reader:Doubtless
EVI:Later:propositions, then at a later stage (in the general theory of
EVI:Case:same laws, even in the case where the prevailing gravitational field is
CON:Semi
EVI:General:order to find out the general law-of-field of gravitation we still
CON:Euclid
EVI:Extra:extra-galactic nebulae (“milky ways”), that the spectral lines emitted
SEQ:Copyright:Collection
EVI:Galileian:(Galileian) reference-body _K_ by the space-time variables _x′, y′, z′,
CON:Some
EVI:Surface:relative to the surface of the earth by erecting a pole perpendicularly
EVI:Immaterial:rope attached, and now a “being” (what kind of a being is immaterial to
EVI:Comparison:measurement or the comparison of lengths.
REL:Help:Classical
SEQ:Very:Pleased
EVI:Under:under the first pan but not under the other, I cease to be astonished,
SEQ:Ellipse:Every
EVI:Clock:whom we will imagine sitting alongside his clock at the centre of the
EVI:Less:This conception is in itself not very satisfactory. It is still less
EVI:Process:by our actual knowledge, played an important part in this process of
EVI:Continuum:To every point of a continuum are assigned as many numbers (Gaussian
EVI:Mission:Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™
SEQ:Several:Britain
CON:Gregory
EVI:Theoretical:hardly be doubted from a theoretical point of view), leads to an origin
SEQ:Equal:Total
EVI:Classical:classical mechanics was able to establish successfully the conservation
SEQ:Serve:Same
SEQ:Transformation:Express
SEQ:Limitation:Certain
SEQ:Mentioned:Above
EVI:Always:independent of the nature and the condition of the body and always the
REL:According:Exactly
EVI:Paying:the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
EVI:Accordance:accordance with the Lorentz transformation, the law of the transmission
EVI:Rods:means of measuring-rods and clocks. If we had based our considerations
SEQ:Together:Gravitational
EVI:Tangentially:radius of the disc) tangentially to the edge of the disc, then, as
EVI:Appendix:the end of Appendix II] is transformed into this equation.
EVI:Homogeneous:It expresses _x′, y′, x′, t′_, in terms of linear homogeneous functions
EVI:Study:gravitational potential, then the study of this displacement will
EVI:Theory:(or in the special theory of relativity) to which I can attribute the
SEQ:Just:Dealt
EVI:Transcription:Transcription to text: Gregory B. Newby
EVI:Told:particular time; unless we are told the reference-body to which the
SEQ:Obtain:Quotient
EVI:Both:required, then both of these points are moving with the velocity v
SEQ:Assumption:Then
SEQ:Claims:Patience
SEQ:Bodies:Such
SEQ:Involving:Interference
SEQ:Made:Lengths
EVI:Somewhat:will be somewhat less than the frequency of an atom of the same element
SEQ:Centre:Circular
EVI:Relatively:length of the metre-rod relatively to the system _K_? In order to learn
EVI:Considerations:of ingenious considerations an able meteorologist were to discover that
CON:Xxiii
SEQ:Means:Relation
REL:Field:Force
EVI:Radius:the spherical beings can determine the radius of their universe
EVI:Entertain:in this way, yet we may entertain the hope that the general law of
SEQ:Imagine:Ourselves
CON:Reading
SEQ:Reference:Train
CON:Expressed
SEQ:Owner:Distributor
EVI:Carriage:occupant of the carriage experiences a correspondingly powerful jerk
EVI:Complying:even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
SEQ:Relationships:Surface
SEQ:Refinement:Modification
EVI:Honestly:entirely shun the vague word “space,” of which, we must honestly
SEQ:Rails:Constant
SEQ:Displacement:Towards
SEQ:Clocks:Space
EVI:Relations:supplementing them by the relations
EVI:Uniform:uniformly. We call its motion a uniform translation (“uniform” because
CON:Treat
SEQ:Able:Compare
EVI:Than:thus comes out smaller than _c_.
EVI:Between:between the space-expanse of the universe and the average density of
SEQ:Systems:Corresponding
EVI:Lines:extra-galactic nebulae (“milky ways”), that the spectral lines emitted
EVI:Tension:neutralised by the tension of the rope; what determines the magnitude
EVI:Work:lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
EVI:General:*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK RELATIVITY: THE SPECIAL AND GENERAL THEORY ***
EVI:Existence:existence, and in the theory of development which is based on the
REL:Curvature:Light
SEQ:Train:Observer
SEQ:Bodies:Suffer
EVI:Velocity:the length of the carriage in the direction of travel with a velocity
CON:Permits
EVI:Force:_F_ = force
CON:Diagram
EVI:Clocks:To start with, he places one of two identically constructed clocks at
SEQ:Donations:Project
EVI:Distance:distance 1 (relative to _K_) will be represented on our snapshot by the
EVI:Increasing:less than 4π_r_2. With increasing values of _r, F_ increases from zero
SEQ:Trademark:Forth
REL:Created:Provide
EVI:Towards:For the sun, the displacement towards the red predicted by theory
CON:Counter
EVI:Railway:of bodies relative to the person in the railway carriage. The
EVI:Seconds:of which does not differ sensibly from the above mentioned +43 seconds
EVI:Introduce:Before we deal with this, we shall introduce the following incidental
EVI:Respect:“time-distance ” of the same events with respect to _K_. But the
EVI:Slab:here we have the general case, corresponding to the marble slab with
SEQ:Following:Statement
EVI:According:conviction that, according to the general principle of relativity, the
SEQ:Observer:Then
EVI:Access:agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
SEQ:Later:Principle
REL:Number:Points
SEQ:Ours:Universe
SEQ:Newsletter:Hear
EVI:General:According to the general theory of relativity, the major axis of the
EVI:General:[13] The general theory of relativity renders it likely that the
EVI:Widespread:Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread
SEQ:Consistent:Must
SEQ:Positions:Clocks
EVI:Equally:equally well choose the carriage or the embankment as our
EVI:Basal:The basal principle, which was the pivot of all our previous
SEQ:Rest:Remain
EVI:Farther:require to extend our ideas of the space-time continuum still farther.
SEQ:Permanently:Maintain
SEQ:Cannot:Quasi
SEQ:Sole:Exception
EVI:Amount:amount indicated above, as compared with their apparent position in the
SEQ:Equations:Lorentz
EVI:Events:The extension of this result, to include events which take place
EVI:Either:least depend either on the material or on the physical state of the
SEQ:Same:Anyone
EVI:During:during the eclipse and the comparison photographs amounted to a few
EVI:Depend:least depend either on the material or on the physical state of the
CON:Marking
EVI:Approaches:This expression approaches infinity as the velocity _v_ approaches the
EVI:Displacement:[27] The displacement of spectral lines towards the red end of the
EVI:Principle:The considerations of Section XX show that the general principle of
EVI:Velocity:carriage. The velocity _W_ of the man relative to the embankment is
SEQ:Expresses:Terms
SEQ:Reference:Regarded
SEQ:Acceleration:Body
SEQ:Along:Body
SEQ:Provide:Full
EVI:Such:angle described by the line joining sun and planet during such a period
EVI:Measuring:influence of the gravitational field on measuring-rods, clocks and
EVI:Event:z, t_, which determine an event or—in other words—a point of the
EVI:Make:(_b_) In locating the position of the object, we make use of a number
EVI:Owns:law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
EVI:Those:insight into the theory of Relativity to those readers who, from a
EVI:Simpler:There is hardly a simpler law in physics than that according to which
CON:Grebe
EVI:Than:than _c_, however great may be the energies used to produce the
CON:Less
EVI:Joint:Joint Committee of the Royal and Royal Astronomical Societies, the
CON:Attracting
EVI:Linear:It expresses _x′, y′, x′, t′_, in terms of linear homogeneous functions
SEQ:Some:Time
SEQ:Place:Result
CON:Harmony
EVI:Treatment:In the theoretical treatment of these electrons, we are faced with the
EVI:Lies:of this expansion which lies “only” about 109 years ago, while physical
EVI:Part:the scene of any event will be determined (for the main part) by the
CON:Motions
SEQ:Present:Main
SEQ:Known:Ordinates
EVI:Does:arrive at a law of motion of the electron which does not agree with
SEQ:Whatever:State
EVI:Executing:Galilei) is executing an accelerated and in general curvilinear motion
SEQ:Moving:Point
EVI:Moving:fundamental equations of the electrodynamics of Maxwell: A body moving
REL:Specification:Position
EVI:Direction:the sun, the star will be seen in the direction _D_2, _i.e._ at a
EVI:Kinetic:In consideration of the expression given above for the kinetic energy
REL:Universe:Observation
EVI:Measurements:is available for their measurements. But if this part is very small
EVI:Seconds:a few seconds only.
EVI:Galilei:mechanical laws of Galilei-Newton hold good exactly as they do with
EVI:Lightning:the lightning must always strike the places _A_ and _B_ simultaneously,
EVI:Distance:electromagnetic phenomena, we have come to regard action at a distance
SEQ:Described:Paragraph
EVI:Subscribe:subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
EVI:Distributed:calculation indicate that if matter be distributed uniformly, the
SEQ:Result:Discussion
EVI:Fixed:To the middle of the lid of the chest is fixed externally a hook with
CON:Investigations
SEQ:Else:Should
CON:Emptiness
EVI:Measurements:measurements.
SEQ:Processes:Laws
SEQ:Axis:Pipe
EVI:Emancipation:purchase our emancipation from the fundamental difficulties mentioned,
SEQ:Successfully:Conservation
EVI:Necessity:Unlike the first, this latter statement need not of necessity hold _a
EVI:Motion:XII. The Behaviour of Measuring-Rods and Clocks in Motion
SEQ:Process:Arrangement
EVI:Line:the points _A, B_ and _C_ of the railway line (co-ordinate system) and
EVI:Gravitational:XX. The Equality of Inertial and Gravitational Mass as an Argument for the General Postulate of Relativity
EVI:Refund:receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
SEQ:Time:Should
SEQ:Reality:Must
SEQ:Continuum:Euclidean
EVI:Measured:measured with the standard measuring-rod, combined with the
CON:Exceeded
REL:Continuum:Given
SEQ:Drop:These
SEQ:Translation:Robert
SEQ:Postulate:Constancy
CON:Variables
SEQ:Merits:Description
SEQ:Must:Performed
EVI:Circumstance:the alteration of the energy. It is owing to this circumstance that
REL:First:Introduce
EVI:Value:_i.e._ a smaller value than π, the difference being the more
EVI:Compared:transmitted to us from a fixed star, as compared with the position of
SEQ:Round:Same
CON:Angular
SEQ:Conclusion:Chest
SEQ:Made:Acquaintance
CON:Distribution
EVI:Opinion:particularly St. John, have been led to the opposite opinion in
EVI:Might:that the answer to this question might be in the negative.
SEQ:Very:Powerful
SEQ:When:Sufficiently
EVI:Constant:equal to a constant _c_. By uniting these two postulates we obtained
EVI:Transmission:If in place of the law of transmission of light we had taken as our
EVI:Juncture:this, we feel compelled at the present juncture to grant a kind of
EVI:Home:room of a home on our earth. If he releases a body which he previously
EVI:Whether:physicist until he has the possibility of discovering whether or not it
CON:Refers
CON:Even
EVI:Deductions:deductions from the general theory of relativity which are capable of
REL:Possibilities:Such
SEQ:Implements:Particular
EVI:Above:In consideration of the expression given above for the kinetic energy
EVI:Receive:receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
CON:Photograph
EVI:Plays:tube plays the part of the railway embankment or of the co-ordinate
SEQ:Galileian:Space
EVI:Goals:goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
EVI:Within:electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
EVI:Only:man advance relative to the embankment during the process? The only
SEQ:Copies:Ebook
EVI:Result:satisfactory because it leads to the result that the light emitted by
SEQ:Transmitted:Fixed
EVI:Since:This law is not yet the _general_ law of the gravitational field, since
SEQ:Briefly:Consider
EVI:Flying:yet it does not rotate in so doing). Let us imagine a raven flying
EVI:Representation:representation with the help of classical mechanics, there was no need
EVI:Principle:of the principle of relativity implies the _necessity_ of the law of
EVI:Days:investigation, and to which the physics of pre-relativity days does not
SEQ:Space:Quite
EVI:Diagram:(Gaussian co-ordinates). For example, the point _P_ in the diagram has
EVI:Other:they approach each other, and finally they run together again at a
SEQ:Magnitudes:Same
EVI:Stone:The action of the earth on the stone takes place indirectly. The earth
EVI:Intention:measuring-rods. In doing so, it is his intention to arrive at exact
CON:Events
EVI:Have:universe, they have no means of determining whether they are living in
SEQ:Body:Judged
SEQ:Constrained:Call
SEQ:Indirect:Consequential
EVI:Propagation:between the principle of relativity and the law of propagation of
EVI:Continuum:every point of the continuum (event) four numbers, _x_1, _x_2, _x_3,
EVI:Itself:itself, to which we cannot attach any meaning, but the motion with
EVI:Shall:general principle of relativity. But in what follows we shall soon see
SEQ:Coordinates:Reason
EVI:Archive:from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
SEQ:Relative:Each
EVI:Theory:special theory of relativity.
SEQ:Curve:Only
SEQ:Show:Experience
SEQ:Whole:Treat
CON:Separated
CON:Pointed
SEQ:Experience:Enterprise
EVI:Each:testing-rod. To this square we add similar ones, each of which has one
SEQ:Within:Days
SEQ:Lines:Light
EVI:Because:state of motion,” cannot be maintained, because the use of rigid
CON:Importance
EVI:Destiny:are invariable with regard to time. No fairer destiny could be allotted
EVI:Theory:THE SPACE-TIME CONTINUUM OF THE SPECIAL THEORY OF RELATIVITY CONSIDERED
CON:Profit
SEQ:Known:Laws
SEQ:Thus:Ordinate
SEQ:Convinced:Point
SEQ:Earth:Entirety
SEQ:Sure:Expect
EVI:Principle:considerations, was the _special_ principle of relativity, _i.e._ the
EVI:Radius:given the amount by which the radius sun-planet exceeds this angle
CON:Sense
EVI:Theory:domain leads conclusively to a theory of electromagnetic phenomena, of
EVI:Acts:acts outwards in a radial direction, and which would be interpreted as
EVI:According:THE STRUCTURE OF SPACE ACCORDING TO THE GENERAL THEORY OF RELATIVITY
CON:Greater
EVI:First:[22] First observed by Eddington and others in 1919. (Cf. Appendix
SEQ:Zero:First
EVI:Time:reality, the description of the time-space continuum by means of Gauss
EVI:Stated:revolution of the planet. Our result may also be stated as follows:
SEQ:Contract:Except
EVI:Principle:this principle.
CON:Exist
EVI:Specification:the nature of our specification of position. If, for instance, a cloud
EVI:Relative:relative to _K_ (relative to _K′_ a gravitational field prevails).
REL:Position:Formulate
EVI:Material:measuring-rods, clocks and material points under the influence of the
EVI:First:present case we can divide the problem into parts by considering first
EVI:Other:laws appeared to be quite independent of each other. By means of the
SEQ:Species:Selection
EVI:Discovered:discovered by Riemann. its points are likewise all equivalent. It
REL:Respect:Every
EVI:Distance:distance can be measured up. It is the simplest plan to use the train
EVI:Equation:or, if we square this equation, according to the equation
SEQ:Small:Inertia
EVI:Behaviour:likewise the behaviour of “isolated” material points; the latter move
EVI:Differentials:_differences_, and thus also for co-ordinate differentials
SEQ:Euclidean:Analytical
EVI:Following:exactly. I shall prepare the reader for this in the following
SEQ:Exists:Surface
EVI:Three:[7] We suppose further that, when three events _A, B_ and _C_ occur in
EVI:Squares:squares. The arrangement is such, that each side of a square belongs to
EVI:Hold:special theory of relativity hold relative to _K_. Let us suppose the
EVI:Holder:additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
EVI:Fact:gravitational field exists for the man in the chest, despite the fact
EVI:Observer:an observer inside who is equipped with apparatus. Gravitation
EVI:Space:THE SPACE-TIME CONTINUUM OF THE SPECIAL THEORY OF RELATIVITY CONSIDERED
EVI:Smallness:of observation owing to their smallness.
EVI:Basis:forms the basis of our considerations.
EVI:Relativity:XVIII. Special and General Principle of Relativity
CON:Regularly
EVI:Other:directly with the reality. But, on the other hand, these results must
EVI:Reference:assumed only for these reference-bodies, but not for others (_e.g._
SEQ:Existence:Gravitational
SEQ:Distance:Without
CON:Developed
CON:Hang
REL:Influence:Electric
EVI:Motion:independent of the condition of motion of the body of reference.
SEQ:Relativity:Question
EVI:Compared:earlier or later. As compared with the standard photograph, the
EVI:Speaking:relative to _K′_. Strictly speaking, such an æther-drift ought also to
SEQ:Result:Comes
EVI:Field:the potential of the gravitational field in which it is situated._
EVI:Order:the considerations of Section VI in order to remove the apparent
EVI:Likely:[13] The general theory of relativity renders it likely that the
SEQ:Clearly:Intelligible
EVI:Detail:identical with _x, y, z, t_. It has already been set forth in detail
CON:Directly
EVI:Validity:claim an unlimited domain of validity; its results hold only so long as
SEQ:Already:Forth
SEQ:Fixes:Rope
EVI:Imagine:has neither empirical nor theoretical foundation. We can imagine
EVI:Does:But how does the man in the chest regard the Process? The acceleration
SEQ:Part:Unattainable
EVI:Have:According to Newton’s law of motion, we have
CON:Referred
SEQ:Position:Stone
CON:Criterion
SEQ:Generalised:Obviously
EVI:Forth:set forth in Section V. For, like every other general law of nature,
SEQ:Masses:Quite
EVI:Contrary:this law. On the contrary, we arrived at the result that according to
SEQ:Releases:Body
SEQ:Physical:Conceptions
SEQ:Light:Considered
SEQ:Foregoing:Considerations
EVI:Centre:theory rather requires that the universe should have a kind of centre
EVI:Corresponds:transformations. which corresponds to the replacement of the
SEQ:Difficulties:Both
EVI:Body:respect to the body of reference[7] (here the railway embankment). We
EVI:Associated:distance _ds_ is associated with the adjacent points _P_ and _P′_, this
SEQ:Generalised:Postulate
SEQ:Check:Project
EVI:Ordinate:for the co-ordinates themselves are valid also for co-ordinate
SEQ:Transformation:Supplementary
CON:Card
EVI:Shall:agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
SEQ:Sacred:Spirit
EVI:Geometrical:geometrical behaviour of the rods is _almost_ as it ought to be
EVI:Behaves:universe behaves analogously to a surface which is irregularly curved
EVI:Bodies:indicates the reference-bodies or systems of coordinates, permissible
EVI:Section:Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™
EVI:Experience:EXPERIENCE AND THE SPECIAL THEORY OF RELATIVITY
SEQ:Electrons:Very
SEQ:Expeditions:Sobral
SEQ:Royalties:Under
SEQ:Made:Even
REL:Analytical:Geometrical
EVI:Rotates:stationary with respect to the fixed stars, but that it rotates
EVI:Flat:our flat beings would find for this ratio the value
SEQ:Since:Calculations
SEQ:Upon:Cannot
EVI:Cyanogen:Evershed and Schwarzschild on the cyanogen bands, have placed the
SEQ:Body:Inertial
EVI:Values:time that, in virtue of this definition, these time-values can be
SEQ:Influenced:Gravitational
SEQ:Consideration:These
EVI:Compared:K′_ is unique (lit. “specially marked out”) as compared with the other.
CON:Grant
EVI:Certain:1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
EVI:Deduction:fixed stars. This deduction, which can be tested with great accuracy,
SEQ:Energy:Point
SEQ:Ordinates:Formally
EVI:These:assertion that these two lightning flashes occurred simultaneously. If
SEQ:Altered:Predictions
SEQ:Chest:Being
EVI:Second:30 kilometres per second. If the principle of relativity were not valid
EVI:Gravitational:gravitational fields, but only for those of quite special form. It is,
SEQ:Length:Carriage
EVI:Special:(or in the special theory of relativity) to which I can attribute the
CON:Furthermore
SEQ:Than:Should
EVI:Relativity:X. On the Relativity of the Conception of Distance
EVI:According:according to the rules of geometry; then, starting from _A_, we can
EVI:Appears:making use of the theory of relativity—appears extraneous.
SEQ:Likewise:Arbitrary
REL:Mission:Promoting
EVI:Following:railway line. Here the following method suggests itself. If we call
SEQ:Used:Charge
EVI:Treatment:statements about their encounters. In our mathematical treatment, such
EVI:Given:the fourth of the equations given in Section XI.
SEQ:Remarks:Give
EVI:Natural:showed that a different hypothesis was natural from a purely
EVI:Illustration:we can satisfy this requirement for our illustration in the following
EVI:Convince:They can convince themselves of this on every part of their “world,”
SEQ:Stand:Still
SEQ:Point:Table
SEQ:Little:Short
EVI:Plane:plane: something like the rippled surface of a lake. Such a universe
EVI:Laws:of our space without coming into conflict with the laws of thought or
SEQ:Treatment:Such
EVI:Continuum:coordinates) as the continuum has dimensions. This is done in such a
EVI:Light:The law of transmission of light, the acceptance of which is justified
EVI:Straight:meaning. We cannot ask whether it is true that only one straight line
SEQ:Being:Pulled
SEQ:Given:Section
EVI:Origin:starting from the origin, I proceed towards the “right” and then
SEQ:Country:Other
CON:Speaking
EVI:Theory:present the fundamental ideas of the special theory of relativity.
SEQ:Requirement:Satisfied
EVI:Systems:stars and systems of stars takes considerably longer. It is in no way
EVI:Mode:We must note carefully that the possibility of this mode of
SEQ:Questions:Have
SEQ:Classes:Experimental
EVI:Classical:III. Space and Time in Classical Mechanics
SEQ:Work:Provided
CON:Serves
EVI:Curves:marble slab. In like manner we imagine a system of _v_-curves drawn on
EVI:Between:The distance between these points A and B is then measured by repeated
EVI:Alteration:the form of radiation without suffering an alteration in velocity in
SEQ:Exceedingly:Simple
EVI:Embankment:travelling uniformly, and drop a stone on the embankment, without
EVI:Metre:But the metre-rod is moving with the velocity _v_ relative to _K_. It
SEQ:Conditions:Required
EVI:Success:invalidate it, but without success. But E. Mach recognised it most
EVI:Obtain:and we then obtain
SEQ:Matter:Together
EVI:Sight:so easy as it appears at first sight.
SEQ:Where:Indicates
SEQ:Slowly:Plane
SEQ:Follows:Fundamental
SEQ:Reference:Railway
EVI:However:electromagnetic structure of matter. This circumstance, however, does
EVI:Laid:if he does not wish to be laid out full length on the floor. He is then
EVI:Disturb:general theory of relativity, this does not disturb him; he is quite in
EVI:Foundation:Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
EVI:Every:We thus obtain the following result: Every description of events in
EVI:However:field. Before proceeding farther, however, I must warn the reader
SEQ:Meaning:Therefore
EVI:Used:of the method used in discussing the special theory, and as long as the
EVI:Whole:(1) There exists an average density of matter in the whole of space
SEQ:According:First
EVI:Gravitational:where the “gravitational mass” is likewise a characteristic constant
EVI:Similar:since there are other things which are not influenced in a similar
SEQ:Refund:Writing
EVI:Discussion:[17] This follows from a generalisation of the discussion in Section
SEQ:Must:Considered
EVI:Speak:co-ordinates we speak of it as being “three-dimensional.”
SEQ:Deal:Detail
SEQ:Event:World
EVI:Comes:of the body, the required energy of the body comes out to be
SEQ:Both:Reference
EVI:Embankment:tube plays the part of the railway embankment or of the co-ordinate
CON:Mollusc
CON:Reliable
SEQ:Then:Have
EVI:Mercury:Mercury, this rotation is too small to be detected with the delicacy of
EVI:Interpretation:interpretation of space- and time-data in the case of the general
REL:Number:These
SEQ:Hypothesis:Natural
EVI:Centre:rotates uniformly in its own plane about its centre. An observer who is
EVI:Orientation:systems in their behaviour would be dependent on the orientation in
EVI:Copyright:the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
SEQ:Satisfy:Postulate
SEQ:Mail:Within
SEQ:Case:Only
EVI:Located:at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States,
EVI:Point:general scientific and philosophical point of view, are interested in
EVI:Terms:and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
CON:Projected
SEQ:Motion:Course
EVI:Dimensional:two-dimensional spherical surface. It is finite (_i.e._ of finite
EVI:Gaussian:numbers (Gaussian coordinates) which differ by an indefinitely small
EVI:Time:time by corresponding values _x′, y′, z′, t′_, which of course are not
EVI:Unsurpassable:treated in detail and with unsurpassable lucidity by Helmholtz and
EVI:Laws:formulate the general laws of nature as they are obtained from
EVI:Position:although the carriage changes its position relative to the embankment
EVI:Occupant:at a uniform rate. As long as it is moving uniformly, the occupant of
EVI:Just:contraction being just sufficient to compensate for the difference in
SEQ:Regarding:Rest
EVI:Writing:you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
EVI:Unless:particular time; unless we are told the reference-body to which the
SEQ:Increasing:Values
EVI:Volunteers:exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
SEQ:Should:Given
EVI:System:represented with respect to the co-ordinate system _K_ by the abscissa
SEQ:Thus:Body
SEQ:Cases:Practically
EVI:Interval:distance (line-interval), independently of any changes in position to
EVI:Permanent:its permanent existence must be characterised by an infinitely large
CON:Operations
SEQ:Coincide:These
CON:Surmount
EVI:Grows:grows from a minimum to a maximum, and then decreases again to a
EVI:Surface:the surface of rigid bodies, and is dependent on the existence of
EVI:Have:line or continue in a state of rest. We have also repeatedly emphasised
EVI:Considerations:Part III: Considerations on the Universe as a Whole
EVI:General:We can state this general principle of relativity in still another
EVI:Have:points of the continuum so that we have simply
EVI:Obtained:discrepancies to be expected between the stellar photographs obtained
SEQ:Rigid:Metre
EVI:Body:reference-body _K′_ moving uniformly with respect to _K_, if we assume
EVI:Relative:relative to the embankment, in this second, the distance w being
SEQ:Body:Referred
CON:Maintenance
SEQ:Velocities:Matter
EVI:Position:another, shall indicate position and time directly. Such was the
SEQ:Determine:Observations
CON:Cottingham
SEQ:Must:Nevertheless
CON:Magnet
CON:Overcome
EVI:Case:this were not the case, the minimum of emission would not be observed
EVI:Hold:nature” can be said to hold, and reference-bodies _K_ relative to which
EVI:Distance:with the distance from operative bodies. It is something like this: The
SEQ:Attempts:Michelson
CON:Imposed
SEQ:Above:Compared
SEQ:Does:Come
CON:Enough
EVI:These:then these general laws of nature (_e.g._ the laws of mechanics or the
EVI:Drawn:by means of a number. The Curves _u_ = 1, _u_ = 2 and _u_ = 3 are drawn
EVI:Relative:centre of the disc, has a velocity relative to _K_ which is given by
EVI:Stars:system of stars in the large—as required, according to Friedman, by the
EVI:Thence:removed from the body are thence determined by the law which governs
EVI:Than:of a metre. The rigid rod is thus shorter when in motion than when at
EVI:Star:the sun (_S_) were not present, a star which is practically infinitely
EVI:Place:Iines. In the first place, we started out from the assumption that
SEQ:Force:Experienced
CON:Potzdammer
EVI:Maximum:in which the density of the stars is a maximum, and that as we proceed
EVI:Nebulae:nebulae. This can be interpreted in regard to our present knowledge
EVI:Effect:colour of the light reaching us from them. The latter effect manifests
CON:Transcription
EVI:Suffice:possible. This incomplete suggestion will suffice for the present
EVI:Room:will cause him to rise slowly towards the ceiling of the room.
EVI:Great:present time (1920) astronomers are working with great zeal towards the
CON:Fizeau
EVI:Property:intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
EVI:Work:with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
SEQ:Difference:Being
EVI:Represented:represented by the analogous formula
REL:Rope:Just
REL:Only:Systems
SEQ:Proceed:Second
EVI:Given:systems are given preference for the description of the
EVI:Then:Then according to Gauss we have
SEQ:Three:Dimensions
EVI:Gutenberg:to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
EVI:Mass:gravitational to the inertial mass must likewise be the same for all
EVI:Space:light is propagated in empty space. Every child at school knows, or
EVI:Thus:Thus if the spherical surface beings are living on a planet of which
CON:Similarly
EVI:Surface:first principles, without making use of the fact that the surface
SEQ:Elliptical:Space
EVI:Specification:This primitive method of place specification deals only with places on
EVI:Arrive:measuring-rods. In doing so, it is his intention to arrive at exact
SEQ:Problem:Arrived
CON:Relationship
SEQ:Theory:Half
EVI:Still:still we must grant it a considerable measure of “truth,” since it
SEQ:Arise:Directly
SEQ:Generalisation:Hypotheses
EVI:Special:*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK RELATIVITY: THE SPECIAL AND GENERAL THEORY ***
SEQ:Have:Solution
EVI:Website:Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
EVI:Light:is the required velocity of light with respect to the carriage, and we
EVI:Ideas:ideas of either the special or the general theory of relativity, I
EVI:Long:is at rest relatively to it as at rest, so long as the mollusc is
CON:Endeavour
REL:Ought:Refrain
EVI:Continuum:the continuum under consideration may be regarded as Euclidean
EVI:Hart:Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
SEQ:Obtain:Equation
CON:Eccentrically
EVI:Lorentz:Lorentz transformation:
EVI:Specifications:specifications of position must always be sought in accordance with the
CON:Evolved
EVI:Find:reference-body _K_, we then find that they do not hold for a
EVI:Thus:and (9), and hence also of (8) and (9). We have thus derived the
SEQ:Importance:Formal
SEQ:Convinced:Such
EVI:Rods:geometrical behaviour of the rods is _almost_ as it ought to be
EVI:Encounters:such encounters constitute the only actual evidence of a time-space
EVI:What:for this preference?_” In order to show clearly what I mean by this
SEQ:Your:Written
REL:Delicacy:Observation
SEQ:Number:Times
SEQ:Method:Cartesian
SEQ:Lorentz:Transformations
EVI:Angle:amount corresponding to the angle _a_.
EVI:Called:fundamental assumptions, the so-called axioms. We call such a system of
EVI:Follows:self-evident). Our principle rather asserts what follows: If we
CON:Neighbouring
SEQ:Beings:Universe
EVI:Degree:a high degree of approximation. Now if we use a system of co-ordinates
SEQ:Tube:Thus
EVI:Reader:I have chosen this as being more familiar to the English reader than
REL:Immaterial:What
CON:Spatially
SEQ:Direction:Length
SEQ:Eclipse:Photograph
EVI:Them:points on a rigid body, we can construct the line joining them
EVI:Tailor:of elegance ought to be left to the tailor and to the cobbler. I make
SEQ:Centre:Gravity
SEQ:Example:Case
EVI:Continua:also applicable to non-Euclidean continua, but only when, with respect
EVI:Decide:means of which, in the present case, he can decide by experiment
EVI:Lorentz:[9] A simple derivation of the Lorentz transformation is given in
EVI:Considerations:means of measuring-rods and clocks. If we had based our considerations
EVI:Means:But this point of view by no means embraces the whole of the actual
SEQ:Require:Such
EVI:Then:is hovering over Trafalgar Square, then we can determine its position
SEQ:Should:Constrained
EVI:Basis:XXIX. The Solution of the Problem of Gravitation on the Basis of the General Principle of Relativity
REL:Applicability:Practice
SEQ:Have:Opposite
CON:Middle
EVI:Popular:even in a popular presentation of the subject.
SEQ:Outside:United
EVI:Necessary:inexperienced in mathematics, but since it is not necessary to have a
CON:Across
EVI:Access:clothes. Minkowski’s work is doubtless difficult of access to anyone
EVI:Called:It is known that cathode rays and the so-called β-rays emitted by
SEQ:Files:Containing
EVI:General:THE STRUCTURE OF SPACE ACCORDING TO THE GENERAL THEORY OF RELATIVITY
EVI:Pass:equations must pass over into equations of the same form; for every
EVI:Include:The extension of this result, to include events which take place
EVI:Electronic:things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
EVI:Section:which we portrayed in Section XXX.
SEQ:Main:Ideas
EVI:Illustration:Aided by the following illustration, we can readily see that, in
SEQ:Fact:Astronomers
EVI:Body:contraction of the body in the direction of motion, the amount of
EVI:Condition:independent of the condition of motion of the body of reference.
EVI:Remarks:These inadequate remarks can give the reader only a vague notion of the
EVI:Half:half a century ago, and which has been repeated since then by some of
EVI:However:however, that this anxiety is unfounded. Let us consider, for instance,
EVI:However:gravitational field. just then, however, he discovers the hook in the
REL:Motion:Parallel
SEQ:Justified:Because
EVI:First:Iines. In the first place, we started out from the assumption that
SEQ:Value:Obtained
EVI:Disc:of the disc is in motion relative to _K_ in consequence of the
EVI:Numbers:numbers. I only need state how many rods I must pass over when,
EVI:Points:of two sets of numbers with the points of the surface considered, of
SEQ:Neighbour:Means
SEQ:Just:Same
SEQ:Thus:Have
EVI:Method:of the method used in discussing the special theory, and as long as the
EVI:Later:A few years later Hubble showed, by a special investigation of the
EVI:Inaccurate:contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
EVI:Satisfactory:satisfactory manner by making a more subtle stipulation about the
REL:Body:Equal
EVI:Author:of will on the part of the reader. The author has spared himself no
SEQ:Physics:Recognised
EVI:Specification:a complete place specification. On the basis of this illustration, we
EVI:Three:To this two-dimensional sphere-universe there is a three-dimensional
EVI:Indefinitely:adjacent clocks (in space) differ from each other by an indefinitely
EVI:Special:Part I: The Special Theory of Relativity
SEQ:Sufficiently:Removed
EVI:Truth:relativity) we shall see that this “truth” is limited, and we shall
EVI:Length:distance _AB_. This is the basis of all measurement of length.[2]
EVI:Continuum:But the Gaussian method can be applied also to a continuum of three,
EVI:Rods:about the physical behaviour of measuring-rods and clocks from the
EVI:Species:theory of the development of species by selection in the struggle for
EVI:Electrodynamics:electrodynamics of Maxwell-Lorentz, on which the original theory was
EVI:Relative:Relative to _K′, the same event_ would be fixed in respect of space and
EVI:Opportunities:without further opportunities to fix the problem.
EVI:Special:contintium—accordance with the special theory of relativity—as a
EVI:Proceed:the special theory of relativity. In this connection we proceed in
SEQ:Able:Manner
CON:Unless
SEQ:Found:Presence
SEQ:Claimed:Mechanics
EVI:Every:indeed every other process) to a rigid reference-body (co-ordinate
CON:Grown
SEQ:Following:Forms
EVI:These:virtue of these ideas, we are inclined to accept as “true.” Then, on
EVI:Detail:density of matter, although very variable in detail, is nevertheless on
SEQ:Transcription:Errors
SEQ:Conditions:Natural
EVI:Caused:caused by the sun.
SEQ:Rigid:Measuring
EVI:Laws:transformation. Or in brief: General laws of nature are co-variant with
CON:Remained
SEQ:Follows:Value
CON:Illuminated
SEQ:Relation:Train
EVI:Ordinate:for a co-ordinate system which is at rest relatively to the sun.
EVI:Distinguishable:points on this surface which are distinguishable from each other. But
SEQ:Outer:Part
SEQ:Before:Statement
EVI:Step:the temptation to venture the step towards the general principle of
EVI:Time:to the theory of relativity, the “time” _x_4, enters into natural laws
EVI:Attribute:gravitational field, at least if we attribute the length 1 to the rod
SEQ:Means:Exporting
EVI:Relativity:THE PRINCIPLE OF RELATIVITY (IN THE RESTRICTED SENSE)
EVI:Equations:hypothesis (2). Namely, the original field equations admit a solution
CON:Interference
REL:Point:Point
CON:Heated
SEQ:Violates:Neither
SEQ:Under:Paragraph
EVI:Gravitational:the properties in space of the gravitational fields themselves.
EVI:Thus:Euclidean properties; thus the fictitious rigid body of reference is of
EVI:Coordinate:amount are assigned to adjacent points. The Gaussian coordinate system
CON:Deals
SEQ:Realisation:Distance
SEQ:Only:Require
EVI:Known:general neither the mass _M_ nor the radius _r_ are known.
CON:Copyright
CON:Britain
EVI:Constant:is practically constant for a small part of the slab, and thus the
CON:Periphery
SEQ:Reference:Measuring
EVI:Relatively:points holds relatively to it.
SEQ:Surely:Regards
SEQ:Distance:Centre
EVI:View:This view is not in harmony with the theory of Newton. The latter
SEQ:Slab:Table
SEQ:Already:Defined
EVI:Generality:_mechanics_. But that a principle of such broad generality should hold
EVI:Cannot:I am very pleased with this suggestion, but for all that I cannot
EVI:Real:whether these propositions are satisfied for those real things we have
SEQ:Liability:Costs
EVI:Sense:“rigid” bodies. In this sense we _can_ imagine a spherical space.
EVI:First:of the first and fourth equations of the _Lorentz transformation_.
EVI:Surface:and _P′_ on the surface then correspond to the co-ordinates
SEQ:Live:Infinite
CON:Suitably
EVI:Laws:respect to _K′_ according to exactly the same general laws as with
CON:Derivation
EVI:Much:with the much more comprehensive statement called “the principle of
EVI:These:inserting the values of these constants in (5), we obtain the first and
SEQ:Works:Protect
EVI:Chest:standing in the chest in exactly the same way as anyone stands in a
SEQ:Rays:Passing
CON:Ascertained
EVI:Gravitational:to wit, the curvature of light rays by the gravitational field of the
SEQ:First:Hundredth
EVI:Dimensional:Space is a three-dimensional continuum. By this we mean that it is
EVI:Space:_K_, we introduce new space-time variables _x′, y′, z′, t′_ of a
EVI:Arises:question arises:
EVI:Considered:consideration. Up to the present we have only considered events taking
SEQ:Structure:Space
EVI:Relativity:Source: Relativity: The Special and General Theory (1920)
EVI:Developed:(developed in Section VII) disappears.
CON:Hears
CON:Warranties
EVI:Costs:electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
SEQ:Like:Euclidean
SEQ:Determine:Status
SEQ:Degree:Approximation
EVI:Whereas:obtained here without any particular assumption, whereas Newton had to
SEQ:Doing:Imagine
EVI:Obtain:obtain photographs of the solar eclipse of 29th May, 1919. The relative
SEQ:Taken:Judged
EVI:Slightest:strings to the floor, otherwise the slightest impact against the floor
SEQ:Website:Includes
EVI:Section:forth in Section 3 below.
SEQ:Drift:Ought
SEQ:Exists:Average
EVI:Different:two clocks arranged at rest in different places of a reference-body are
SEQ:Important:Deduction
EVI:Motion:accelerated motion. In course of time their velocity will reach
SEQ:Same:Acceleration
CON:Concluded
EVI:Copyright:Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
EVI:Contact:to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website
SEQ:Points:Gaussian
EVI:Sense:world in this sense as a four-dimensional continuum is due to the fact
CON:Violates
EVI:Others:[22] First observed by Eddington and others in 1919. (Cf. Appendix
SEQ:Reaches:Cloud
EVI:Signal:the postulate of relativity, that the transmission of the signal in
EVI:Fundamental:fundamental equations of the electrodynamics of Maxwell: A body moving
EVI:Apart:Apart from this one, it has hitherto been possible to make only two
EVI:Room:reference-body let us imagine a spacious chest resembling a room with
EVI:Have:represent the motions of the points in question have a particular
EVI:Seems:from a Euclidean one, and this notion seems all the more probable,
EVI:Terrestrial:perceptible in terrestrial experiments. We have already remarked in
EVI:Riemann:discovered by Riemann. its points are likewise all equivalent. It
EVI:Likewise:discovered by Riemann. its points are likewise all equivalent. It
EVI:Knowledge:nebulae. This can be interpreted in regard to our present knowledge
EVI:Celebrated:Principe (West Africa)—and sent several of Britain’s most celebrated
SEQ:Manner:Mass
EVI:Along:perceives the lightning flashes travels along the length _A_ → _M_ with
CON:Feeling
EVI:Pick:“If we pick up a stone and then let it go, why does it fall to the
SEQ:Body:Being
SEQ:Than:Frequency
EVI:Connection:plane Euclidean geometry with their rods. In this connection the
EVI:Written:with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
EVI:Rest:relative to _K_ with a velocity _v_, but at rest with respect to the
EVI:Before:Before we deal with this, we shall introduce the following incidental
CON:Circular
SEQ:Rotary:Movement
SEQ:Together:Again
SEQ:Trees:Book
EVI:Leverrier:was found (Leverrier: 1859; and Newcomb: 1895) that an unexplained
EVI:Cause:will cause him to rise slowly towards the ceiling of the room.
REL:Refinement:Modification
SEQ:Motion:Body
EVI:Developed:position has been developed.
EVI:Star:the sun, the star will be seen in the direction _D_2, _i.e._ at a
SEQ:Earlier:Than
EVI:Lodged:practically rigid body is something which is lodged deeply in our habit
REL:Stars:Systems
SEQ:Propositions:Then
SEQ:Coordinates:Differ
EVI:Direction:direction of the velocity of revolution of the earth in the course of a
EVI:Should:travel through space, we should find everywhere an attenuated swarm of
SEQ:Phenomena:Light
EVI:Respect:the rod lie with respect to _K_ at a particular time _t_ of the system
EVI:Spherical:universe would necessarily be spherical (or elliptical). Since in
EVI:Flat:Flat beings with flat implements, and in particular flat rigid
SEQ:Part:Worldsphere
SEQ:Information:Mass
EVI:Similar:testing-rod. To this square we add similar ones, each of which has one
EVI:Parts:most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
EVI:Problem:problem of the greatest importance, the early solution of which is to
EVI:Prevailing:body of the gravitational field prevailing relatively to _K_. It is
EVI:Ideas:rotating uniformly with respect to _K_. In order to fix our ideas, we
EVI:Nature:nature. In this connection we did not obtain the Galilei
SEQ:Exist:Observer
EVI:Point:starting point diverge farther and farther from one another, but later
SEQ:Posted:Official
EVI:Displacement:gravitational potential, then the study of this displacement will
SEQ:Refraction:Liquid
SEQ:Being:Just
EVI:Rigid:(2) The space-interval (distance) between two points of a rigid body is
SEQ:Your:Definition
CON:Starts
EVI:Inertial:enough to make themselves perceptible as a change in the inertial mass
EVI:Space:“world” by Minkowski is naturally four dimensional in the space-time
CON:Produces
EVI:Account:account of their nature. For since electrical masses of one sign repel
REL:Direction:Continuously
SEQ:Finite:Area
EVI:United:the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
SEQ:Only:Trajectory
EVI:Theory:theory rather requires that the universe should have a kind of centre
SEQ:Certain:Unique
SEQ:Just:Then
SEQ:Reader:Difficulties
EVI:Every:Every description of the scene of an event or of the position of an
SEQ:Satisfactory:According
EVI:Transformation:transformation by substituting an infinitely large value for the
SEQ:Transition:Galileian
SEQ:Links:Immediate
CON:Views
SEQ:Theory:Perforce
EVI:Clear:uniform motion. At all events it is clear that the Galileian law does
EVI:Field:with respect to time. Under the influence of this field, the embankment
EVI:Emitted:satisfactory because it leads to the result that the light emitted by
EVI:Consider:consider the extent of its limitation.
CON:Values
EVI:Described:A four-dimensional continuum described by the “co-ordinates” _x_1,
SEQ:Structure:Matter
SEQ:Places:Such
EVI:Assumed:[2] Here we have assumed that there is nothing left over _i.e._ that
CON:Square
EVI:Following:following conclusion from these premises, in conjunction with the
SEQ:Located:Before
EVI:Radius:in which the “world radius” depends on time (expanding space). In that
EVI:Travels:perceives the lightning flashes travels along the length _A_ → _M_ with
SEQ:Relations:Distances
EVI:Arbitrary:of light _in vacuo_ for rays of light of arbitrary direction, both for
SEQ:Equations:Known
EVI:Immense:every fixed star describes a circle of immense radius in the course of
SEQ:Valid:Matter
SEQ:Seen:Flame
SEQ:Apply:Earlier
SEQ:Against:Misconception
SEQ:Considerations:Most
SEQ:Cartesian:Ones
SEQ:Potential:Hence
EVI:Sphere:number of lines of force which enters the sphere is thus proportional
EVI:Built:of each other, on which electrodynamics was built.
EVI:Same:exactness that this velocity is the same for all colours, because if
SEQ:Follows:Equations
EVI:Validity:the validity of the results of the special theory of relativity
CON:Involves
EVI:Found:reference to those fixed stars are found to be in accord with
EVI:Rotary:of _uniform rectilinear and non-rotary motion_ with respect to _K_; all
SEQ:Observation:Possible
SEQ:Other:General
SEQ:Motion:Reference
REL:Supplementary:Section
EVI:Body:arranged on a rigid body that the reflecting surfaces face each other.
SEQ:Short:Compass
SEQ:Downwards:Opinion
EVI:Under:to the defined “size” or “distance,” small parts of the continuum under
SEQ:Already:Explained
CON:Incongruity
EVI:Lorentz:shows that we are able to construct the Lorentz transformation in this
SEQ:Suggested:These
CON:Deductive
SEQ:Expressions:Place
EVI:Supplies:simultaneity such that this definition supplies us with the method by
CON:Appropriate
SEQ:Hypothetical:System
EVI:Equation:facts. Experiment[10] decides in favour of equation (B) derived from
SEQ:Using:Method
EVI:Principle:In contrast to this we wish to understand by the “general principle of
EVI:Only:the conservation of energy, and is only valid provided that the system
REL:Number:Lines
EVI:Moving:acceleration or curvature corresponds to the influence on the moving
EVI:Surface:independent of the diameter of the circle. On their spherical surface
EVI:Course:theoretically the influence of a gravitational field on the course of
SEQ:Marked:Such
EVI:Continuum:continuum which has to be represented.
EVI:Electron:electrical masses of an electron are held together by gravitational
EVI:Liquid:drawing on hypotheses as to the physical nature of the liquid.
SEQ:Geometry:Single
EVI:Principle:abandon either the principle of relativity or the simple law of the
SEQ:Devoted:Attempts
SEQ:Galileian:Transformation
SEQ:Again:Choose
EVI:Marked:example, of seeing in a “distance” two marked positions on a
SEQ:Should:Possible
SEQ:Order:Learn
CON:Differentials
REL:Difficult:Access
SEQ:Periodic:Variations
SEQ:Hold:These
CON:Agent
SEQ:Have:Referred
EVI:When:rate_ if they are of identical construction. Stated more exactly: When
SEQ:Likewise:Same
EVI:Cartesian:of this corner with reference to the “Cartesian co-ordinate system”
REL:Destined:Become
EVI:Choose:Thus, if we choose as time-variable the imaginary variable
EVI:Respect:Pure “space-distance” of two events with respect to _K_ results in
EVI:Drop:into the field equations of gravitation, if one was ready to drop
SEQ:Production:Promotion
SEQ:Dust:Reality
SEQ:Measured:Means
CON:Electrostatic
EVI:General:A FEW INFERENCES FROM THE GENERAL PRINCIPLE OF RELATIVITY
EVI:Construction:We must experience many such surprises if the construction is to be
CON:Ought
EVI:Introduction:introduction of the æther-idea, and hence there can be no æther-drift,
SEQ:Tally:Assertions
SEQ:Ratio:Circumference
SEQ:Observe:Continuously
REL:Development:Electrodynamics
CON:Form
EVI:Transformation:have σ = 1. It is easily seen that the Lorentz transformation really
EVI:Exhibits:exhibits a most remarkable property, which is of fundamental importance
SEQ:Detailed:Examination
EVI:Impossible:for instance, impossible to choose a body of reference such that, as
EVI:After:theory of relativity, but only after a hypothetical term was added to
SEQ:Transformation:Brief
EVI:Euclidean:“world” in a formal manner as a four-dimensional Euclidean space (with
EVI:Physical:Similarly, the world of physical phenomena which was briefly called
EVI:Fields:gravitational fields, but only for those of quite special form. It is,
CON:Whole
SEQ:Systems:Newton
REL:Directly:Those
EVI:Have:theory would have been disproved. Let us now examine what general
SEQ:Table:Results
EVI:Real:to its real position.
EVI:Leads:domain leads conclusively to a theory of electromagnetic phenomena, of
EVI:State:able to state a reason why one of them is to be preferred to the
EVI:Circumference:radius until the “circumference of the universe” is reached, and that
SEQ:Take:Place
EVI:These:transformation are valid. These last form the basis for the derivation
SEQ:Abstract:Manner
EVI:First:[8] _e.g._ the middle of the first and of the hundredth carriage.
EVI:Imagine:Let us now imagine that a large number of little rods of equal length
EVI:Magnitude:estimated magnitude for light rays passing the sun at grazing incidence
EVI:Above:the one clock is _simultaneous_ (in the above sense) with the _same_
SEQ:Points:Likewise
SEQ:Arbitrary:Direction
SEQ:Being:Produced
SEQ:Data:Found
CON:Correctness
EVI:Reading:1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
SEQ:Reference:Galileian
EVI:Rods:vertical direction by means of a framework of rods, so that an event
SEQ:Strings:Floor
EVI:Reader:of will on the part of the reader. The author has spared himself no
SEQ:Only:Vague
EVI:Clearness:clearness, it appeared to me inevitable that I should repeat myself
EVI:Time:present time (1920) astronomers are working with great zeal towards the
CON:Nevertheless
CON:Indemnify
EVI:Bodies:fixed stars are bodies for which the law of inertia certainly holds to
EVI:Rather:this sense is founded exclusively on rather incomplete experience. For
EVI:Have:principle of relativity, and the question arises: How have we to modify
CON:Quantity
SEQ:Sent:Several
EVI:Velocity:centre of the disc, has a velocity relative to _K_ which is given by
CON:Conflict
SEQ:Quickly:Moving
CON:Including
EVI:Distances:we now assume that the relative distances between the electrical masses
SEQ:Spherical:Necessarily
EVI:Joining:points on a rigid body, we can construct the line joining them
EVI:Occupied:his own reference-body occupied by the stone at each tick of the clock
EVI:Propagation:to take for granted that the propagation of light always takes place
CON:Derived
SEQ:Departs:Appreciably
SEQ:Radius:Space
EVI:Whether:empirical decision as to whether or not the conception that has to be
EVI:Should:_x_-axis with respect to _K_, then we should have found that the length
SEQ:Discard:Assumption
SEQ:Resulting:When
REL:Continuum:Dimensions
REL:Copyright:These
SEQ:Further:Want
SEQ:Knowledge:First
EVI:View:It was at all times clear that, from the point of view of the idea it
SEQ:Development:Ought
EVI:Equation:The use of the C.G.S. system in this equation gives 2/k = 1.08 x 1027;
EVI:Being:a straight line when the points _A_ and _C_ being given, _B_ is chosen
SEQ:Path:Reality
SEQ:Test:Means
EVI:Xvii:II. Minkowski’s Four-Dimensional Space (“World”) (supplementary to section XVII)
EVI:Body:motion of the reference-body is of such a nature that it does not
EVI:Value:radius _r_ depends on _r_, but for a given value of _r_ it is the same
EVI:Distance:example, of seeing in a “distance” two marked positions on a
EVI:Formulation:EXACT FORMULATION OF THE GENERAL PRINCIPLE OF RELATIVITY
CON:Extended
EVI:Distant:_A_ and _B_ far distant from each other. I make the additional
EVI:Gravitational:co-ordinates when a gravitational field is present. In connection with
SEQ:Admit:Ratio
SEQ:Motion:Than
CON:Checks
EVI:Ordinate:perpendicular to each other marked out, and designated as “co-ordinate
EVI:Must:License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
SEQ:Hubble:Expansion
EVI:Galilei:Galilei transformation or the Lorentz transformation corresponds to the
EVI:Unimportant:relativity, is far from being unimportant and pardonable. It is now
SEQ:Need:Such
EVI:Geometry:lines in the sense of Euclidean geometry, and they are perpendicular to
EVI:Ordinate:For the relative orientation of the co-ordinate systems indicated in
EVI:Sphere:equal to the total area of the whole “world-sphere.”
EVI:Variables:_K_, we introduce new space-time variables _x′, y′, z′, t′_ of a
SEQ:Motion:Carriage
SEQ:Promoting:Free
EVI:Experience:this sense is founded exclusively on rather incomplete experience. For
EVI:Perfectly:the gravitational field in space must be a perfectly definite one, in
SEQ:Corresponding:Orbit
EVI:Spherical:is Euclidean, then _F_ = 4π_r_2; if it is spherical, then _F_ is always
EVI:Amount:amount of energy _E_0, then its inertial mass increases by an amount
EVI:Small:(electrons) of very small inertia and large velocity. By examining the
EVI:Pages:theory, with which we shall deal later. In the following pages we shall
SEQ:Nevertheless:Because
CON:Happening
EVI:Exists:It is an open question whether or not this effect exists, and at the
SEQ:Both:Cases
EVI:Times:process a (large) number of times, or, in other words, by going from
EVI:According:the theory of relativity, since according to this theory time is robbed
EVI:Judged:judged from it, the gravitational field of the earth (in its entirety)
EVI:Simply:points of the continuum so that we have simply
EVI:Field:field of giving all bodies the same acceleration, or, what comes to the
EVI:Geometry:Euclidean geometry of the plane, equal to a constant value π, which is
SEQ:Field:Clock
EVI:Mirrors:which appears as though it must be decisive. Imagine two mirrors so
SEQ:Access:Viewing
EVI:Experimental:THE EXPERIMENTAL CONFIRMATION OF THE GENERAL THEORY OF RELATIVITY
SEQ:Continues:Increase
EVI:Bodies:that this fundamental law can only be valid for bodies of reference _K_
SEQ:Have:Access
SEQ:Results:Experience
SEQ:Space:Regarded
EVI:Works:providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
EVI:Construction:at every position on the table. But our construction of squares must
EVI:According:There is hardly a simpler law in physics than that according to which
EVI:Imagine:In the first place, we imagine an existence in two dimensional space.
SEQ:However:Shall
EVI:Observer:valid from the standpoint of an observer who is rotating with the disc.
EVI:Effect:existence of the effect almost beyond doubt, while other investigators,
SEQ:Markup:Brian
CON:Similarity
EVI:Traversed:parabolic curve. I now ask: Do the “positions” traversed by the stone
EVI:Known:reason nor known mechanical laws. Even though it is being accelerated
SEQ:Between:Reference
EVI:Space:immediate vicinity (in space) of the event. In this manner a time-value
EVI:Theory:Maxwell-Lorentz theory so plausible, that the latter would have been
EVI:Then:is constant throughout the universe, then a sphere of volume _V_ will
SEQ:Attached:Assignment
EVI:Free:which is situated in free space (or on the surface of a smaller
CON:Built
REL:Referred:Reality
CON:Stars
EVI:Coordinates:motions only to systems of coordinates relative to which the fixed
EVI:Additional:an additional distance w relative to the carriage, and hence also
EVI:Following:to unity. We then have the following law: The _gravitational_ mass of a
CON:Divide
CON:Expanse
SEQ:Most:Read
EVI:Always:the lightning must always strike the places _A_ and _B_ simultaneously,
EVI:General:XXVIII. Exact Formulation of the General Principle of Relativity
EVI:Motion:alterations in form _ad lib._ during their motion. Clocks, for which
EVI:Whatever:whatever may be its state of motion.
SEQ:Removed:Light
EVI:Other:and other appreciable masses, that we have before us approximately the
EVI:Permissible:indicates the reference-bodies or systems of coordinates, permissible
EVI:Domain:refer such a domain to a reference-body _K′_ possessing any kind of
SEQ:Pass:Thus
EVI:Other:other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
EVI:Experiment:experiment which the brilliant physicist Fizeau performed more than
REL:Method:Place
SEQ:Frequently:Referred
SEQ:Essentially:Equivalent
EVI:Accelerated:accelerated motion. In course of time their velocity will reach
EVI:Must:in the diagram. Between the curves _u_ = 1 and _u_ = 2 we must imagine
SEQ:Texts:Protected
EVI:Relative:define exactly the co-ordinates _x, y, z_ relative to the disc by means
EVI:Energy:energy in the form
REL:Points:Question
SEQ:Rather:Differently
EVI:Freely:freely-moving material points continues to take place according to the
CON:Proceed
EVI:Predicted:For the sun, the displacement towards the red predicted by theory
SEQ:Case:Corresponding
EVI:Rapid:compared with the velocity of light. We have experience of such rapid
SEQ:Links:Other
EVI:Ebook:of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online
SEQ:Force:Chest
EVI:Special:relativity. According to the special theory of relativity, the
CON:Magnitudes
CON:Above
EVI:Robert:Translated: Robert W. Lawson (Authorised translation)
EVI:Obtainable:nothing more nor less than the results of measurements obtainable by
EVI:Interpretation:a physical interpretation of this law.
EVI:Albert:by Albert Einstein
EVI:Gravitational:This law is not yet the _general_ law of the gravitational field, since
SEQ:Date:October
SEQ:Nature:Laws
EVI:Natural:instance, that we know the space-time “course” for any natural process
EVI:However:differs from zero, however small may be that difference, then the
SEQ:Resulting:Relationship
SEQ:Involves:Rigid
SEQ:Carriage:Moving
SEQ:Arise:Applicability
EVI:Electricity:upon as the laws of electricity. At the present time we know that
EVI:Principle:principle immaterial to what reference-body we refer the motion. As
EVI:Based:My original considerations on the subject were based on two hypotheses:
SEQ:Applicable:State
CON:Slowly
SEQ:Experiment:Recognise
SEQ:Carriage:Changes
EVI:Time:four-dimensional, space-time continuum. We called these “Galileian
EVI:These:to objects of experience, but only with the logical connection of these
EVI:Release:Release date: October 1, 2009 [eBook #30155]
EVI:Moderate:permits of our answering it with a moderate degree of certainty, and in
SEQ:Body:Rates
SEQ:Colour:Light
EVI:Theory:difficulty that electrodynamic theory of itself is unable to give an
SEQ:Simplest:Plan
SEQ:Sense:Four
EVI:Have:Evershed and Schwarzschild on the cyanogen bands, have placed the
SEQ:Then:Some
EVI:Pole:on the Square, so that it reaches the cloud. The length of the pole
EVI:Hand:deductions from two theories in Newtonian mechanics on the one hand,
SEQ:Task:Treating
SEQ:Read:Understand
EVI:Motion:state of motion is such that the law of inertia holds relative to it is
SEQ:Indicated:Diagram
SEQ:Manner:Indicated
EVI:Refer:refer such a domain to a reference-body _K′_ possessing any kind of
EVI:Section:considerations of the preceding section.
SEQ:Simply:Cartesian
EVI:Copy:1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
EVI:Taking:_t_ from the equations (5), taking into account the expression (6), we
EVI:Misdeed:misdeed from the footpath notices that the stone falls to earth in a
SEQ:Practically:Infinitely
EVI:Respect:respect to _K′_ according to exactly the same general laws as with
SEQ:Larger:Number
SEQ:Gutenberg:Collection
SEQ:Must:Experience
SEQ:Temptation:Venture
SEQ:Principe:West
EVI:Mississippi:state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
EVI:Unlike:hears of “four-dimensional” things, by a feeling not unlike that
EVI:Ground:ground?” The usual answer to this question is: “Because it is attracted
EVI:Thus:infinitely large gravitational fields being produced. We thus free
EVI:Cost:at the cost of a modification and complication of Newton’s law which
EVI:Theory:based, in no way opposes the theory of relativity. Rather has the
SEQ:Space:Involves
CON:Universe
SEQ:Possibility:Exact
EVI:Space:XXVI. The Space-Time Continuum of the Special Theory of Relativity Considered as a Euclidean Continuum
EVI:Distance:On the basis of the physical interpretation of distance which has been
EVI:Definition:Moreover, at this stage the definition of the space co-ordinates also
SEQ:Impossible:Build
SEQ:Recognise:Following
EVI:Theory:theory, without the introduction of particular hypotheses; and as the
SEQ:Sentence:Forth
SEQ:Retaining:Equations
EVI:Idea:VIII. On the Idea of Time in Physics
REL:Clocks:Freely
EVI:Particles:fields, we can study the law of motion of these particles very exactly.
EVI:Distributor:TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
SEQ:Moment:Three
EVI:Space:properties of space are not independent, but they are determined by
SEQ:Conception:Material
EVI:Hold:since the equations of such a theory hold for every body of reference,
SEQ:Perpendicular:Each
SEQ:Hand:These
EVI:Motion:facts, supplies us then with that particular law of motion which has
SEQ:Newtonian:Field
CON:Disc
SEQ:Mean:Rays
EVI:Unjustifiable:consideration which borrowed two unjustifiable hypotheses from
EVI:Complying:copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
SEQ:Nature:Must
REL:Construction:Squares
EVI:States:charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
EVI:Means:the chest. He must therefore take up this pressure by means of his legs
EVI:Refund:• You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
EVI:Possible:is it possible to associate the co-ordinates _x_1 . . _x_4. with the
EVI:Ordinates:agreement of their four co-ordinates _x_1, _x_2, _x_3, _x_4. Thus in
SEQ:Theory:Lives
REL:Supplemented:Such
EVI:Uniformly:uniformly and in straight lines.
EVI:License:Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
EVI:Ought:ought to possess something of the nature of a centre. Of course we
REL:Perpendicular:Each
EVI:Generalised:Mathematically, we can characterise the generalised Lorentz
EVI:Train:obtained by measuring in the train itself. This circumstance leads us
EVI:Arises:principle of relativity, and the question arises: How have we to modify
CON:Each
EVI:Temperature:the same way_ as regards the influence of temperature when they are on
SEQ:Analogous:Described
SEQ:Larger:Time
EVI:Works:electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
EVI:Relativity:According to the general theory of relativity, the geometrical
CON:Work
EVI:Independently:distance (line-interval), independently of any changes in position to
SEQ:However:Must
EVI:Motion:executing a uniform translatory motion with respect to _K_. In
REL:Differences:Opinion
EVI:Physics:physics of measurement this is attained by the application of the
EVI:Mentioned:already mentioned, this is self-evident, but it must not be confused
EVI:Points:elliptical) excels in its simplicity, since all points on it are
EVI:Along:the same velocity as along the length _B_ → _M_. But an examination of
EVI:Then:amount of energy _E_0, then its inertial mass increases by an amount
SEQ:Motion:Cannot
EVI:Ebook:of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online
REL:Difficult:Locate
CON:Accuracy
SEQ:Space:Expanse
EVI:Condition:condition, then at least one of the two fundamental assumptions of the
EVI:Real:Analogously, I seek in vain for a real something in classical mechanics
SEQ:Definite:Decision
EVI:Along:for the reference-body _K′_. A light-signal is sent along the positive
SEQ:Holder:Additional
EVI:Section:Section XIII in connection with the experiment of Fizeau, the result of
EVI:Valid:reference-bodies _K_ the law is not valid. Both in classical mechanics
REL:Property:Being
EVI:Event:body (body of reference) with which that event or object coincides.
EVI:Rather:by the earth.” Modern physics formulates the answer rather differently
EVI:General:THE EXPERIMENTAL CONFIRMATION OF THE GENERAL THEORY OF RELATIVITY
EVI:Being:Euclidean geometry hold for “distances;” the “distance” being
CON:Terms
EVI:Another:transition of one Gauss co-ordinate system into another.
EVI:Should:that above with the marble slab), we should find that different laws
SEQ:Support:Provide
SEQ:Distributing:Creating
EVI:Development:the more recent development of electrodynamics and optics it became
EVI:Followed:followed the preceding discussion are almost sure to expect that we
SEQ:Called:Principle
EVI:Order:length of the metre-rod relatively to the system _K_? In order to learn
SEQ:Connecting:Line
EVI:Train:travelling train. Just when the flashes (as judged from the embankment)
SEQ:Whom:Imagine
CON:Grasping
EVI:Given:a straight line when the points _A_ and _C_ being given, _B_ is chosen
EVI:Part:heat the central part of the marble slab, but not the periphery, in
SEQ:Both:Clocks
EVI:Should:position in space with “time.” I should load my conscience with grave
EVI:Where:where the magnitudes _g_11, etc., have values which vary with the
EVI:Shown:values of these two points at the time _t_ = 0 can be shown to be
EVI:Shall:experiment would be unsuccessful. We shall suppose that the rods
EVI:Make:International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
SEQ:Newton:Latter
EVI:Does:naturally does not exist for this observer. He must fasten himself with
EVI:Success:hope of success in such an attempt; Let us imagine ourselves
SEQ:Have:Only
EVI:Full:• You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
EVI:Definition:time that, in virtue of this definition, these time-values can be
EVI:Space:space, _i.e._ a physical non-equivalence of different directions. This
EVI:Propagated:_t_ = 0. It will be propagated according to the equation
EVI:Points:experience. Guided by purely formal points of view, H. A. Lorentz was
SEQ:Place:When
SEQ:Possessed:General
CON:Sight
EVI:Ratio:bodies. By a suitable choice of units we can thus make this ratio equal
EVI:Situated:sun is situated at another position in the sky, _i.e._ a few months
CON:Operative
EVI:Relative:carriage. The velocity _W_ of the man relative to the embankment is
EVI:Refund:1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
EVI:Phenomena:foundation for the physical description of all natural phenomena. At
EVI:Intellectual:conscientiously thoughtful physicist into the greatest intellectual
EVI:Ordinates:co-ordinates we speak of it as being “three-dimensional.”
SEQ:Only:Scientific
SEQ:Point:Kind
SEQ:Major:Semi
CON:Phrase
SEQ:Shows:Also
EVI:Already:of inertial and gravitational mass; but it has also already explained a
SEQ:Obtain:Galilei
REL:Method:Interpretation
EVI:General:solution of which the general theory of relativity supplies the key,
SEQ:Still:Must
EVI:Share:you share it without charge with others.
EVI:Might:the average everywhere the same. In other words: However far we might
CON:Encounters
EVI:Apparatus:an observer inside who is equipped with apparatus. Gravitation
EVI:When:It is a different matter when the distance has to be judged from the
EVI:Relativity:On the basis of the general theory of relativity, it is found that the
EVI:Relative:the carriage, who traverses the distance _w per second_ relative to the
EVI:Means:laws appeared to be quite independent of each other. By means of the
REL:Building:Euclid
EVI:Than:these became meaningless if we choose values of _v_ greater than _c_.
EVI:Returning:motion. Returning to the illustration we have frequently used of the
SEQ:Simple:Considerations
SEQ:Leverrier:Newcomb
EVI:Also:But the Gaussian method can be applied also to a continuum of three,
EVI:Erected:reaches the cloud has not been erected. By means of optical
REL:Freely:Space
EVI:Discussed:together, and discussed in detail from the standpoint of the question
SEQ:Line:Ordinate
EVI:Spectral:(_c_) Displacement of Spectral Lines Towards the Red
SEQ:Case:Decide
SEQ:Land:Accelertion
EVI:Conception:theory of relativity has led is concerned with the conception of mass.
EVI:Here:respect to the body of reference[7] (here the railway embankment). We
EVI:Constituting:each other, the negative electrical masses constituting the electron
EVI:Additional:additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
SEQ:Systems:Given
EVI:When:co-ordinates when a gravitational field is present. In connection with
SEQ:Mass:Intensity
EVI:Retardation:(retardation) of the carriage. But he is compelled by nobody to refer
SEQ:Donations:Help
EVI:Distributed:performed, viewed, copied or distributed:
REL:Position:Establish
SEQ:Theory:Easily
SEQ:Detail:Preceding
EVI:Weak:gravitational fields can be regarded as being weak, and in which all
EVI:Measuring:from K, the length of a unit measuring-rod which is at rest with
EVI:Whether:be commissioned to determine by observations whether in the actual case
EVI:Lines:(_c_) Displacement of Spectral Lines Towards the Red
EVI:Unanswerable:it has long been known that the last question is not only unanswerable
EVI:Relativity:theory of relativity. As a consequence, I am guilty of a certain
SEQ:System:Ordinate
SEQ:Length:Rigid
SEQ:Thus:Perfectly
SEQ:Imagine:Reference
EVI:Perpendicular:This consists of three plane surfaces perpendicular to each other and
EVI:Rest:two clocks arranged at rest in different places of a reference-body are
EVI:These:particular co-ordinates _x_1, _x_2, _x_3, _x_4, if in themselves these
EVI:Value:Euclidean geometry of the plane, equal to a constant value π, which is
EVI:Nature:nature with which we meet in physical statements.
SEQ:Events:Satisfy
SEQ:Rotation:According
EVI:State:violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
EVI:About:Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
SEQ:Introduction:Idea
EVI:Distributing:performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
EVI:Other:other reference-bodies (or their states of motion)? _What is the reason
SEQ:Accelerated:Motion
EVI:Gauss:We can sum this up as follows: Gauss invented a method for the
EVI:General:general theory of relativity, a ray of light will experience a
SEQ:Continuum:Matter
SEQ:Table:Expand
EVI:Immediate:body (_e.g._ the earth) produces a field in its immediate neighbourhood
EVI:Reason:experience? This question is not easily answered for the reason already
SEQ:Equations:Admit
SEQ:Relative:Embankment
EVI:Obtain:[25] For the radius _R_ of the universe we obtain the equation
SEQ:Bodies:Sense
EVI:Experiment:generally accepted by physicists even if experiment had decided less
SEQ:Whose:Distance
SEQ:Rotation:Regard
EVI:General:general sense from two kinds of transformations, viz. from Lorentz
REL:Field:Matter
SEQ:Innumerable:Laws
REL:Ebook:Relativity
SEQ:States:Motion
EVI:Supplies:supplies us with the actual motions of the heavenly bodies with a
EVI:According:rotation. According to a result obtained in Section XII, it follows
EVI:Universe:universe behaves analogously to a surface which is irregularly curved
EVI:Quite:If we apply quite similar considerations to light rays which are being
EVI:Motion:a material point with any kind of motion. If this point had only a
EVI:Discontinue:copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
EVI:Does:does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
EVI:Requires:of the planet. Theory requires that this rotation should amount to 43
SEQ:Problem:Gravitation
EVI:First:In the first place, we see from this expression that two clocks of
SEQ:Requires:Same
REL:Degree:Certainty
SEQ:Walking:Thus
EVI:Principle:the temptation to venture the step towards the general principle of
CON:Outer
EVI:Principle:should retain the principle of relativity, which appeals so
CON:Difficulties
CON:Renders
EVI:Rate:that the latter clock goes at a rate permanently slower than that of
EVI:Still:We can characterise the Lorentz transformation still more simply if we
EVI:Masses:attraction between two masses diminishes more rapidly than would result
EVI:Four:A four-dimensional continuum described by the “co-ordinates” _x_1,
EVI:Simple:_K_ should be in the direction of the _x_-axis. A simple consideration
EVI:Electronic:Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
EVI:Hence:velocities that are small compared with the velocity of light; hence we
EVI:Geometry:Geometry ought to refrain from such a course, in order to give to its
EVI:Observation:is strictly in agreement with observation.
SEQ:Extent:Limitation
EVI:Manner:following manner. Experience has led to the conviction that, on the one
EVI:Contradict:_in vacuo_ does not contradict the principle of relativity? In other
EVI:World:_x_2, _x_3, _x_4, was called “world” by Minkowski, who also termed a
CON:Plausibility
SEQ:Particular:Hypotheses
EVI:Galileian:Galileian reference-body _K_. As judged from this body, the clock at
EVI:Edition:Written: 1916 (this revised edition: 1924)
CON:Insurmountable
SEQ:Cause:Acceleration
EVI:Nature:set forth in Section V. For, like every other general law of nature,
EVI:Both:we can free ourselves from both of these limitations without altering
SEQ:Observer:Further
SEQ:Every:Description
EVI:Principle:replaced by a more complicated law conformable to the principle of
EVI:Distance:as instantaneous actions at a distance (not involving an intermediary
EVI:Newton:medium) of the type of Newton’s law of gravitation.
EVI:Employed:VI. The Theorem of the Addition of Velocities employed in Classical Mechanics
EVI:Time:forms, in which the time co-ordinate plays exactly the same role as the
SEQ:Part:Accelerated
EVI:Based:object in space is based on the specification of the point on a rigid
EVI:Nature:account of their nature. For since electrical masses of one sign repel
EVI:Rails:along the rails, the connecting line _AB_ should be measured up and an
EVI:Everywhere:the universe is infinite. There are stars everywhere, so that the
EVI:Sphere:is constant throughout the universe, then a sphere of volume _V_ will
EVI:Velocities:which corresponds to the theorem of addition for velocities in one
SEQ:Able:Show
SEQ:Unity:Practice
EVI:Equal:body is equal to its _inertial_ mass.
REL:Question:Detecting
EVI:Circle:the line joining the free ends of these lines a “circle.” For a plane
SEQ:Definitions:Being
EVI:Equal:equal to _c_. The same result is obtained for rays of light advancing
SEQ:Full:License
SEQ:Constituting:Electron
SEQ:Paying:Fees
EVI:Displacement:For the sun, the displacement towards the red predicted by theory
SEQ:Expressed:Follows
EVI:Rods:numbers. I only need state how many rods I must pass over when,
EVI:Other:in other directions.
EVI:Variable:density of matter, although very variable in detail, is nevertheless on
EVI:Generally:co-ordinates are generally not available; furthermore, the magnitudes
CON:Area
EVI:Adjacent:distance _ds_ is associated with the adjacent points _P_ and _P′_, this
SEQ:Only:Might
SEQ:Providing:Choose
EVI:Inherent:inherent to the subject. On the other hand, I have purposely treated
REL:Rules:Methods
REL:Chest:Exactly
SEQ:Analogous:Formula
SEQ:Arrow:Tube
SEQ:Comply:Other
CON:Anxiety
EVI:Section:time mentioned above. Comparison with the discussion in Section XII
EVI:Carriage:If the motion of the carriage is now changed into a non-uniform motion,
EVI:Thus:_M_ is the mass of the heavenly body. Thus a displacement towards the
EVI:Actual:is fulfilled in an actual case. We thus require a definition of
SEQ:Addition:Velocities
SEQ:Part:Railway
REL:Statement:Called
SEQ:Content:Regard
EVI:Reach:accelerated motion. In course of time their velocity will reach
SEQ:Coordinate:Lorentz
SEQ:North:West
EVI:Laws:these laws do not hold.
SEQ:Assumed:These
EVI:Should:coincide with these two points; for how else should we define the
CON:Virtue
SEQ:Holder:Your
SEQ:Lines:Force
EVI:Earth:relative motions of the fixed stars with respect to the earth on the
SEQ:Very:Variable
EVI:Proceeding:A light-signal, which is proceeding along the positive axis of _x_, is
EVI:Plays:plays a fundamental role in this theory. In Part II we shall see in
EVI:Dust:of relativity would be laid in the dust. But in reality this is not the
SEQ:Parabola:Example
SEQ:Paragraph:Project
REL:Right:Equal
EVI:Whole:universe, considered as a whole, is to be regarded, the first answer
SEQ:View:Means
EVI:Cloud:on the Square, so that it reaches the cloud. The length of the pole
EVI:Designating:designating always the correspondence with a “real” object; geometry,
REL:Possible:Draw
EVI:Limitation:warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
CON:Foci
EVI:Against:motion of _K′_ against the æther (“æther-drift” relative to _K′_) were
EVI:Mechanics:VI. The Theorem of the Addition of Velocities employed in Classical Mechanics
SEQ:Theory:Step
EVI:Editions:Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
EVI:Quite:laws appeared to be quite independent of each other. By means of the
EVI:Framework:respect to the second framework. Without committing any fundamental
EVI:Works:Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
EVI:Success:Let me add a final remark of a fundamental nature. The success of the
SEQ:Finally:General
EVI:Proportional:number of lines of force which enters the sphere is thus proportional
SEQ:Ebooks:Modified
EVI:Displacements:Mean displacements of lines towards the less refrangible end of the
EVI:Time:at the same time, then they are simultaneous.
EVI:Judged:It is a different matter when the distance has to be judged from the
EVI:Gravitational:of inertial and gravitational mass; but it has also already explained a
CON:Remaining
REL:Points:Motion
EVI:Than:nothing more nor less than the results of measurements obtainable by
EVI:Following:the following objection: “Your definition would certainly be right, if
CON:Zeeman
SEQ:Form:During
SEQ:Research:Project
SEQ:Other:Ordinate
SEQ:Relative:Strictly
EVI:Distance:the distance between them. If we increase the accuracy of the
EVI:Extent:extent, that no other theory than that of Maxwell and Lorentz has been
SEQ:Same:Different
CON:Comes
EVI:Version:version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
EVI:Gravitational:the gravitational field under consideration is of a special kind. In
EVI:Field:field equations of gravitation. Hubble’s discovery can, therefore, be
SEQ:Justified:Also
SEQ:Make:Subtle
SEQ:When:Tested
EVI:Individual:in its individual parts, but which nowhere departs appreciably from a
EVI:Little:a little consideration.
EVI:Theory:theory of relativity, but only after a hypothetical term was added to
EVI:Being:at the surface of the earth, the amount of this displacement being
EVI:When:able to hold its own when tested by experience.
EVI:Means:reality, the description of the time-space continuum by means of Gauss
EVI:Bears:This four-dimensional “world” bears a close similarity to the
REL:Efforts:Hundreds
EVI:Capable:deductions from the general theory of relativity which are capable of
EVI:Mechanical:forwards. The retarded motion is manifested in the mechanical behaviour
SEQ:Relativity:Overthrown
EVI:Specification:specification of the lengths of the three perpendiculars or
EVI:Development:relativity. The development of theoretical physics shows, however, that
SEQ:Place:Started
CON:Represented
EVI:Velocity:travelling along the railway lines with the velocity _v_, and that its
EVI:Carriage:carriage. The velocity _W_ of the man relative to the embankment is
SEQ:Space:Three
CON:Upon
EVI:Special:the special theory of relativity and to which we have already
SEQ:Requires:Consideration
SEQ:Special:Cases
EVI:Rods:four of these little rods on the marble slab so that they constitute a
CON:Identical
EVI:Suppose:purpose we suppose that clocks of identical construction are placed at
SEQ:Piece:Starting
EVI:Ideas:however, is not concerned with the relation of the ideas involved in it
SEQ:Vacuum:Must
EVI:Transformed:the end of Appendix II] is transformed into this equation.
EVI:Based:by its dark neighbour. By means of similar considerations based on
EVI:Same:or to the same order of approximation by
EVI:Disc:Now, as judged from the disc, the latter is in a gravitational field of
EVI:Natural:to the embankment. As a natural consequence, however, the following
SEQ:Sense:According
EVI:Over:process; for it slurs over the important part played by intuition and
EVI:Gauss:Then according to Gauss we have
EVI:Measure:number of these operations required is the numerical measure of the
EVI:Statement:been assumed in physics that the statement of time had an absolute
SEQ:Axis:Ellipse
EVI:Reference:“reference-body” and derivable from them; only _experience_ can decide
CON:Theories
EVI:Ordinate:simultaneity). Every reference-body (co-ordinate system) has its own
CON:Thoughtful
CON:Simplest
EVI:Always:velocity of light _c_. The velocity must therefore always remain less
SEQ:Example:Transmission
SEQ:Ions:Other
SEQ:Electrons:Faced
SEQ:Natural:Object
SEQ:Statements:Having
EVI:Relative:between reference-bodies _K_ relative to which the recognised “laws of
REL:Indicated:Section
SEQ:Required:Theory
EVI:Values:time by corresponding values _x′, y′, z′, t′_, which of course are not
EVI:Unattainable:_c_ plays the part of an unattainable limiting velocity.
SEQ:Century:Uncertainty
CON:Cost
EVI:States:the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
EVI:Gutenberg:Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
EVI:Because:it is of constant velocity and direction, “translation” because
SEQ:Constant:Force
CON:Development
EVI:Theory:the validity of the results of the special theory of relativity
EVI:Becomes:in Section VI becomes invalid. The possibility presents itself that the
EVI:Physical:drawing on hypotheses as to the physical nature of the liquid.
EVI:Intelligible:most intelligible form, and on the whole, in the sequence and
EVI:Limited:contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
CON:Species
CON:Direction
SEQ:Have:Taken
EVI:Particular:relative to a particular body of reference.
EVI:Transformation:transformation for changing over from one body of reference to another.
EVI:Annular:but in the course of time it would fill up an annular part of the
EVI:General:The great power possessed by the general principle of relativity lies
EVI:Continuum:EUCLIDEAN CONTINUUM
SEQ:Signal:Proceeding
EVI:Accompanying:predicted effect can be seen clearly from the accompanying diagram. If
CON:Unattainable
SEQ:Matter:Being
SEQ:Respect:According
SEQ:Perihelion:Precision
EVI:Enterprise:as it were, a purely empirical enterprise.
EVI:Between:relation between _x′_ and _t′_. In point of fact, if we substitute for
SEQ:Absent:Most
SEQ:Have:Easily
EVI:Gravitational:at rest in the gravitational field.
EVI:Arrived:handling the problem can be arrived at in the following way. We imagine
SEQ:Situated:Distance
EVI:Displaying:agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
EVI:Hand:left-hand side, then the left-hand side of (11_a_) agrees with the
EVI:Embankment:indicating that the carriage is at rest, but the embankment in motion.
EVI:Planes:is moving perpendicularly to the planes of the mirrors from that
EVI:Carry:However, we obtain a new result of fundamental importance when we carry
EVI:Only:part, however, this modification affects only the laws for rapid
SEQ:Perform:Constructions
EVI:Field:[18] The field disappears at the centre of the disc and increases
EVI:Differences:sufficiently obvious to ensure that differences of opinion are
EVI:Business:It is a veritable wonder that we can carry out this business without
EVI:Equation:_t_ = 0. It will be propagated according to the equation
SEQ:Instead:Above
EVI:Just:we have just written down does not hold in reality. For the time being,
REL:Line:Definite
CON:Play
CON:Formerly
SEQ:Must:Replaced
REL:Universe:Infinite
EVI:Signify:where _du_ and _dv_ signify very small numbers. In a similar manner we
SEQ:Total:Eclipse
CON:Pure
EVI:Quite:relativity. But a simple and apparently quite reliable consideration
SEQ:Nature:Negative
EVI:Justifiable:This, hypothesis, which is not justifiable by any electrodynamical
EVI:Have:It is clear that we have the problem of Section VI again before us. The
REL:Whole:Space
EVI:Application:relativity, on the other hand, by application of _arbitrary
REL:Strives:Move
SEQ:Slab:Periphery
SEQ:Natural:Laws
EVI:Result:the second considered. We shall see later that this result, which
SEQ:Considerations:Light
SEQ:Definite:Finite
EVI:Field:correctly, but also the field of force experienced by himself.
EVI:Owner:to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
SEQ:Section:Finds
EVI:Transmission:In the example of the transmission of light just dealt with, we have
EVI:Proceed:definite law, as we proceed farther and farther away from the earth.
SEQ:Time:Continuum
CON:Simpler
SEQ:Between:Involves
SEQ:Universe:Inhabited
EVI:Discovers:gravitational field. just then, however, he discovers the hook in the
SEQ:Stars:Large
SEQ:System:Reference
SEQ:Considerations:Suggest
SEQ:Conceptions:Such
SEQ:Because:Reality
EVI:Field:gravitational field _G_. Hereupon we introduce a hypothesis: that the
EVI:Must:_i.e._ the work, considered negatively, which must be performed on the
EVI:Obtained:obtained by measuring in the train itself. This circumstance leads us
SEQ:Reality:Considered
EVI:Each:_A_ and _B_ far distant from each other. I make the additional
SEQ:Greatest:Difficulties
EVI:Importance:theory of relativity. As being of particular importance, I mention here
EVI:Necessity:which is foretold by the theory of relativity without the necessity of
EVI:Paper:which has been engaging our attention here, in a paper by E. Freundlich
SEQ:Solved:Formal
SEQ:Motion:Raven
EVI:Restricted:THE PRINCIPLE OF RELATIVITY (IN THE RESTRICTED SENSE)
EVI:Equal:Δ_x_ in (7) must be equal to Δ_x′_ in (7_a_), so that we obtain
EVI:Simultaneity:following suggestion with which to test simultaneity. By measuring
EVI:Body:assuming that the motion of the body relative to the æther produces a
SEQ:When:Express
EVI:Relativity:The theory of relativity leads to the same law of motion, without
SEQ:Ebook:Complying
SEQ:Ordinates:Nothing
SEQ:Virtue:Definition
SEQ:Body:Gravitational
EVI:Appeared:Hypothesis (2) appeared unavoidable to me at the time, since I thought
EVI:Space:III. Space and Time in Classical Mechanics
EVI:Existence:points which can claim a physical existence are in reality the
EVI:Empirical:empirical evidence appertaining to them which has hitherto been
EVI:Disc:reference to the circular disc _K′_, these definitions being based on
SEQ:Registration:Stars
SEQ:Points:Practically
SEQ:Theory:Finds
CON:Altering
SEQ:Apart:Already
SEQ:Data:Astronomy
EVI:Rigid:rigid rods, but by indirect means. If the results of physics and
EVI:Equation:the theory of relativity. In the equation
REL:Laws:Electricity
SEQ:Proposition:Then
SEQ:Place:Anywhere
SEQ:Marked:Point
EVI:States:States without permission and without paying copyright
CON:Uniquely
REL:Donations:Locations
SEQ:Effect:Noted
CON:Permission
SEQ:Matter:Quite
SEQ:Agreement:Agree
SEQ:Xxiii:Shown
SEQ:Euclidean:Contrary
EVI:Radial:acts outwards in a radial direction, and which would be interpreted as
EVI:Manner:results are obtained in an exceedingly simple manner, and the effects
SEQ:Time:Again
EVI:Played:process; for it slurs over the important part played by intuition and
EVI:Must:reason why we must wait for a total eclipse is because at every other
EVI:Reference:description of natural processes, neither of the reference bodies _K,
SEQ:Thus:Length
SEQ:Must:Cease
CON:Unlike
CON:Valid
SEQ:Question:Such
SEQ:Clear:Gauss
EVI:Since:than 1, since, according to Section XII, moving bodies suffer a
SEQ:Manner:Suppose
EVI:Meet:considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
EVI:Space:of a gravitational field. Nevertheless, the space-distribution of this
EVI:Project:access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
REL:Relative:Every
SEQ:Support:Donations
CON:Confronted
EVI:Such:here. In reality they limit the theoretical possibilities to such an
CON:Galileian
EVI:Information:to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website
EVI:Magnitudes:definite way on _u_ and _v_. The magnitudes _g_11, _g_12 and _g_22,
SEQ:Arrive:Motion
SEQ:Natural:Extension
REL:Constrained:Call
EVI:Astronomy:result of observation in astronomy, against which classical mechanics
EVI:Your:you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
EVI:Comparison:in comparison with the second, which last is alone considered in
SEQ:Eclipse:Fixed
SEQ:Intention:Arrive
SEQ:Purely:Spatial
EVI:Estimated:estimated magnitude for light rays passing the sun at grazing incidence
SEQ:Relativity:Assume
REL:Orientation:Space
EVI:Main:the scene of any event will be determined (for the main part) by the
EVI:Consistent:Both these hypotheses proved to be consistent, according to the general
EVI:Foundation:so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
SEQ:Must:Have
SEQ:Critical:Reaching
EVI:Whose:there exists a reference-body _K_, whose condition of motion is such
SEQ:Greater:Velocities
SEQ:Relativity:Transmission
REL:Possible:Obtain
EVI:Legal:including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
CON:Modify
SEQ:Field:Constant
SEQ:Supposition:Only
SEQ:Part:Marble
EVI:Must:We must note carefully that the possibility of this mode of
EVI:Committed:The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
SEQ:Main:Search
REL:Chest:Always
EVI:Else:This equation expresses nothing else than the law of motion of the
EVI:Theory:stars until we come to speak of the general theory of relativity. In
SEQ:Bodies:Considered
CON:Distributing
SEQ:Have:Remedies
EVI:Above:require to obtain a generalisation of the law as found above. This can
EVI:Agency:require any external agency for its maintenance, _e.g._ in the case
EVI:Provide:any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
CON:Robbed
SEQ:Other:Clock
EVI:System:system). As such a system let us again choose our embankment. We shall
SEQ:Choose:Embankment
SEQ:Reality:Encounter
SEQ:Whole:System
EVI:Than:body of reference, we stated nothing more than the encounters of this
EVI:Theory:of this, the special theory of relativity and with it the whole theory
EVI:Such:Place a metre-rod in the _x′_-axis of _K′_ in such a manner that one
SEQ:Area:Gradually
EVI:Little:long. To ensure the equality of the diagonals, we make use of a little
EVI:Theory:[13] The general theory of relativity renders it likely that the
EVI:Have:propagation of light _in vacuo_. Those of you who have carefully
CON:Suffering
EVI:Thus:the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
CON:Dependence
SEQ:Part:Spherical
SEQ:Respect:Earth
EVI:Appendices:Appendices:
SEQ:Derivation:Laws
REL:Fast:Both
CON:Traverse
EVI:Bodies:other reference-bodies (or their states of motion)? _What is the reason
SEQ:Deductions:Theories
REL:Objects:Experience
EVI:Round:Newton’s theory, a planet moves round the sun in an ellipse, which
SEQ:Speak:Continuum
SEQ:What:Have
EVI:Overlapping:one can be laid on any other without the ends overlapping. We next lay
SEQ:Transformation:Obtained
SEQ:Basis:Only
EVI:Thought:Our train of thought in the foregoing pages can be epitomised in the
CON:Juncture
EVI:Used:in mechanics, which can be used in mechanical description. The visible
EVI:Limiting:_c_ plays the part of an unattainable limiting velocity.
EVI:Earth:judged from it, the gravitational field of the earth (in its entirety)
EVI:Continuum:three-dimensional continuum of Euclidean geometrical space.[14] In
EVI:More:derivation of laws, and—what is incomparably more important—it has
EVI:Being:should be constrained to believe that natural laws are capable of being
EVI:First:the first to introduce the hypothesis that the form of the electron
EVI:Relationships:geometrical relationships in the surface, and thus pointed out the way
EVI:Latter:latter been developed trom electrodynamics as an astoundingly simple
SEQ:Light:Emitted
EVI:Mollusc:reference-body (mollusc) used in the description may be chosen.
EVI:Paragraphs:trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.
EVI:Area:proportional to ρ0_V_. For unit area of the surface of the sphere the
EVI:Treated:supplemented in this way is then to be treated as a branch of physics.
SEQ:Line:Demands
SEQ:Including:Checks
EVI:Fields:measuring-rods and clocks is influenced by gravitational fields, _i.e._
EVI:Observer:observer will further convince himself _that the acceleration of the
SEQ:Strictly:Agreement
EVI:Events:the two events took place simultaneously or not.” I cannot be satisfied
SEQ:Other:Means
EVI:Obtained:have obtained the following equations:
EVI:Chosen:a straight line when the points _A_ and _C_ being given, _B_ is chosen
SEQ:Addition:Knowledge
SEQ:Despite:Fact
SEQ:Regard:Three
EVI:Kind:a material point with any kind of motion. If this point had only a
EVI:Zero:which is everywhere the same and different from zero.
EVI:Small:motions, in which the velocities of matter _v_ are not very small as
REL:Constructions:Plane
EVI:Nevertheless:is nevertheless 1.7 seconds of arc. This ought to manifest itself in
EVI:Circular:the clock at the centre of the circular disc, _i.e._ as observed from
EVI:Place:body to which the specification of place refers; “Trafalgar Square,
CON:Conception
EVI:Earth:Now in virtue of its motion in an orbit round the sun, our earth is
SEQ:Uniform:Real
REL:Better:Accord
SEQ:Problem:Parts
EVI:Observe:embankment, is uniform and in a straight line. If we were to observe
EVI:Nearest:planet which lies nearest the sun. Since the time of Leverrier, it has
SEQ:Reference:Means
EVI:Judged:reference to _K′_ must be exactly the same as the length, as judged
CON:Prominent
EVI:Once:thought. Once in possession of the Lorentz transformation, however, we
EVI:Events:simple conditions. Let us consider two neighbouring events, the
EVI:Copy:the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
CON:Ordinates
CON:Engaging
EVI:Method:demand any fundamentally new method.
SEQ:Variables:Original
CON:Limited
EVI:Places:90°) which allows him visually to observe both places _A_ and _B_ at
EVI:Draw:point, they draw “straight lines” (arcs of circles as judged in three
SEQ:Kind:Centre
EVI:Under:would necessarily be scattered under the influence of their mutual
SEQ:Field:Attraction
EVI:Certain:warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
EVI:Decision:empirical decision as to whether or not the conception that has to be
SEQ:Systems:Coordinates
EVI:Said:nature” can be said to hold, and reference-bodies _K_ relative to which
EVI:Defined:“size-relations” (“distances” between neighbouring points) are defined.
SEQ:Rippled:Surface
SEQ:Reading:Using
EVI:Full:immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
SEQ:Simple:Connection
SEQ:Replaced:Another
SEQ:Always:Choose
EVI:Consider:Let us consider two particular points on the train [8] travelling along
SEQ:Easily:Answered
SEQ:Stationary:Respect
CON:Must
EVI:Such:_mechanics_. But that a principle of such broad generality should hold
EVI:Volume:volume), and has no bounds.
EVI:Relativity:THE STRUCTURE OF SPACE ACCORDING TO THE GENERAL THEORY OF RELATIVITY
EVI:Feel:justified, every intellect which strives after generalisation must feel
EVI:Principle:very much in favour of the validity of the principle of relativity.
EVI:Hypotheses:If we drop these hypotheses, then the dilemma of Section VII
CON:Heating
EVI:Believed:velocity of light _c_ (in vacuum) is justifiably believed by the child
REL:Point:View
SEQ:Data:Case
EVI:Gutenberg:phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
EVI:Collected:effect of gravitation. The results of observation have been collected
CON:Bluish
EVI:Relative:man advance relative to the embankment during the process? The only
CON:Discover
EVI:Facts:The second class of facts to which we have alluded has reference to the
EVI:Domain:increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
EVI:Theory:IV. The Structure of Space According to the General Theory of Relativity (supplementary to section XXXII)
CON:Complication
SEQ:Access:Other
EVI:Feel:It is not difficult to understand why, in spite of this, we feel
CON:Adjacent
EVI:Carriage:the length of the carriage in the direction of travel with a velocity
EVI:Takes:Then every event which takes place along the line also takes place at a
EVI:Agree:1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
EVI:Astronomical:an astronomical day, a result which is opposed to the statement of the
EVI:Acceleration:field of giving all bodies the same acceleration, or, what comes to the
CON:Smallness
CON:Stationary
SEQ:Applied:Also
SEQ:Experience:Such
EVI:Refund:the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
SEQ:Ourselves:Whether
EVI:Axis:(directed towards the negative _x_-axis) of a point of _K_ with respect
CON:Mach
SEQ:Itself:Slight
SEQ:Thus:Rough
REL:Described:Paragraph
SEQ:Velocity:Backwards
SEQ:Order:Have
SEQ:These:Hypotheses
EVI:Mentioned:after it has been corrected for the influences mentioned above, is not
REL:Sphere:Volume
SEQ:Without:Applies
SEQ:Subsequent:Measurement
EVI:Result:is projected through a gravitational field. As a result of this theory,
EVI:Velocity:ray of light possesses the velocity of transmission _c_ relative to the
EVI:Little:of measuring-rods, as a little consideration will show.
SEQ:About:Propagation
SEQ:Each:Tick
SEQ:Plane:About
EVI:Cause:this bluish something will cause the emission of the steam, or at least
SEQ:Work:Copied
EVI:However:_possibly_ it may do so. If, however, I notice the bluish something in
EVI:Disregard:we are able to disregard the influences of gravitational fields on the
SEQ:Manner:Imagine
EVI:Four:MINKOWSKI’S FOUR-DIMENSIONAL SPACE
SEQ:Continuum:Definite
SEQ:Made:Definition
CON:Public
EVI:Ideas:associated with the geometrical ideas. In less exact terms we can
EVI:Methods:rigid measuring-rods performed according to the rules and methods laid
CON:Generalised
EVI:Relativity:enable us to answer this question. But the general theory of relativity
SEQ:Connected:General
EVI:Already:apart. We already know that it is necessary to have a body of reference
EVI:Answer:by the earth.” Modern physics formulates the answer rather differently
SEQ:Themselves:Propositions
CON:Dimensions
EVI:Existence:the surface of rigid bodies, and is dependent on the existence of
EVI:Railway:(_b_) the railway carriage as reference-body,
CON:Ebooks
EVI:Such:that there was no such field for the co-ordinate system first chosen.
EVI:Root:and for still greater velocities the square-root becomes imaginary.
EVI:Posted:contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
SEQ:Process:Slurs
SEQ:Bodies:Validity
EVI:Significance:We shall speak of its essential significance later.
EVI:About:situation depicted here corresponds to the one brought about by the
EVI:Modified:what way this result becomes modified in the general theory of
EVI:Particles:out from the following law: Material particles sufficiently far removed
EVI:Same:“time-distance ” of the same events with respect to _K_. But the
SEQ:Notice:Possibility
EVI:Hastening:embankment) he is hastening towards the beam of light coming from _B_,
SEQ:Motion:Parallel
CON:Advancing
EVI:Equation:Instead of the equation (A) we then obtain the equation
SEQ:About:Centre
EVI:Represented:represented with respect to the co-ordinate system _K_ by the abscissa
EVI:Impenetrability:continually interfere with each other, owing to the impenetrability of
SEQ:Field:Directed
SEQ:Disdainful:Glance
EVI:Difficulties:COSMOLOGICAL DIFFICULTIES OF NEWTON’S THEORY
SEQ:Observer:First
SEQ:Time:Then
SEQ:What:Does
EVI:Light:estimated magnitude for light rays passing the sun at grazing incidence
SEQ:Editions:Replace
SEQ:Refund:Forth
SEQ:Contraction:Being
EVI:Force:introduce the hypothesis that the force of attraction between mutually
EVI:Definitions:reference to the circular disc _K′_, these definitions being based on
SEQ:Another:Kind
EVI:Most:incompatible with the most natural definition of simultaneity; if we
EVI:Section:the considerations of Section VI in order to remove the apparent
SEQ:Format:Attached
EVI:Simultaneously:the lightning must always strike the places _A_ and _B_ simultaneously,
EVI:Relativity:can combine this with the principle of relativity, and sum up the
EVI:Continuously:emitted continuously from the one pan, but not from the other. I am
EVI:Piece:spherical surface differs only slightly from a piece of a plane of the
SEQ:Time:Observation
EVI:Most:exhibits a most remarkable property, which is of fundamental importance
EVI:Four:four or more dimensions. If, for instance, a continuum of four
SEQ:Deductions:Theory
EVI:Measure:and which we employ as a standard measure. If, now, _A_ and _B_ are two
SEQ:Viewing:Displaying
EVI:Theory:introduction of the theory of relativity.
EVI:Possessed:is nothing else than the energy possessed by the body[12] before it
SEQ:Another:Very
EVI:Operation:a disc which is at rest with respect to _K_, this operation would yield
SEQ:Paperwork:Many
SEQ:Uniformly:Respect
EVI:Mode:But no person whose mode of thought is logical can rest satisfied with
EVI:License:copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
EVI:Newton:According to Newtonian mechanics and Newton’s law of gravitation, a
CON:Neutralised
SEQ:However:Have
EVI:Exist:mass. If this natural law did not exist, the man in the accelerated
EVI:Refer:(retardation) of the carriage. But he is compelled by nobody to refer
SEQ:Before:Proceeding
EVI:Facts:facts. Experiment[10] decides in favour of equation (B) derived from
EVI:Character:is variable with respect to space and time.[17] The character of this
EVI:Gravitational:also influenced by gravitational fields, and in such a way that a
EVI:Outset:outset, that this matter lays no small claims on the patience and on
SEQ:Practice:Move
EVI:Time:observation possible at the present time; but that in the case of
EVI:Ordinates:co-ordinates _x_1, _x_2, _x_3. It is due to this fact that, according
SEQ:Easy:Appears
EVI:Follows:rotation. According to a result obtained in Section XII, it follows
EVI:Point:point, they draw “straight lines” (arcs of circles as judged in three
EVI:Relative:the velocity of another point of _K′_ relative to _K_, or the velocity
EVI:Statement:Gaussian co-ordinates, every such statement is expressed by the
EVI:Donations:International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
EVI:Whole:whole not only moving in any way whatsoever, but which also suffer
SEQ:Expected:Between
SEQ:Together:Discussed
SEQ:Constitutes:Fundamental
EVI:Here:obtained here without any particular assumption, whereas Newton had to
SEQ:System:Curves
CON:Only
EVI:Form:equations of the same form when, by making use of the Lorentz
EVI:Past:conscientious teachers. By reason of our past experience, you would
EVI:Uniform:embankment, is uniform and in a straight line. If we were to observe
EVI:Measuring:continuum with reference to the measuring-rods, but only in this case,
EVI:Photographed:the neighbourhood of the sun are photographed during a solar eclipse.
EVI:Quite:intensity of the action on a body dimishes according to a quite
EVI:Measurements:two points on a rigid body by means of measurements. For this purpose
SEQ:According:Known
SEQ:Trom:Electrodynamics
EVI:Bodies:latter is in motion with reference to other bodies or not. The velocity
EVI:Making:making use of the theory of relativity—appears extraneous.
EVI:Reference:positions relative to the body of reference (railway carriage or
EVI:Delicacy:that is capable of being obtained by the delicacy of observation
SEQ:Particular:Paper
EVI:Manner:to imagine—after the manner of Faraday—that the magnet always calls
SEQ:Clearness:Mean
CON:Kinetic
EVI:Smaller:which is situated in free space (or on the surface of a smaller
EVI:Move:from other material particles continue to move uniformly in a straight
SEQ:Hope:General
EVI:Gravitational:experiences a downward force in the gravitational field, and this is
SEQ:Truth:Since
EVI:Takes:velocity of light always takes the place of instantaneous action at a
REL:Domain:Phenomena
SEQ:Propagation:Takes
EVI:Hold:we have just written down does not hold in reality. For the time being,
SEQ:Above:Expression
EVI:Love:with more respect than love—the magnificent structure, on the lofty
SEQ:Placed:Perpendicular
REL:Surface:Rigid
EVI:Than:There is hardly a simpler law in physics than that according to which
EVI:Work:received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
EVI:Chest:nevertheless regard the chest as being at rest. We have thus good
EVI:Gravitationial:way. Even though by no means all gravitationial fields can be produced
REL:Velocity:Flow
CON:Owns
SEQ:Against:Sacred
SEQ:Describing:Motion
SEQ:These:Satisfy
EVI:Shall:positions of the clocks. We shall now examine this dependence
SEQ:Same:Domain
CON:Inertial
REL:Choose:Give
EVI:System:[11] _E_0 is the energy taken up, as judged from a co-ordinate system
EVI:Required:of the body, the required energy of the body comes out to be
SEQ:Viewing:Another
SEQ:During:Total
SEQ:Intensity:Gravitational
EVI:Window:railway-carriage window is holding one of them, and the man on the
SEQ:Proportional:Mass
EVI:Solved:indicated in the diagram (Fig. 2), this problem is solved by means of
SEQ:Principle:Pivot
EVI:Average:If we are to have in the universe an average density of matter which
EVI:Relativity:is very powerful argument in favour of the principle of relativity.
CON:Aided
SEQ:Contributions:States
CON:Arcs
EVI:Applies:satisfactorily than without it, and this applies particularly to the
SEQ:Reader:Only
EVI:Field:(_b_) Deflection of Light by a Gravitational Field
SEQ:Positions:Made
EVI:Gutenberg:generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
SEQ:Mercury:Other
SEQ:Continuum:Dimensions
CON:Justifiably
EVI:Asking:propositions interpreted in this way, since we are justified in asking
EVI:Small:is small compared with unity, the third of these terms is always small
EVI:Than:that the lightning flash _B_ took place earlier than the lightning
SEQ:Question:Decided
EVI:Save:has been confirmed for all the planets save one, with the precision
EVI:Gutenberg:other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
SEQ:Future:Access
EVI:Rods:square constructed with rods. The great charm resulting from this
EVI:Work:very exact grasp of this work in order to understand the fundamental
EVI:Mass:amount of energy _E_0, then its inertial mass increases by an amount
EVI:Results:shall hardly be able to compare the results of the previous section
SEQ:Make:Ratio
CON:Extend
EVI:Space:the gravitational field in space must be a perfectly definite one, in
EVI:Second:the second considered. We shall see later that this result, which
EVI:License:full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.
SEQ:Opportunity:Receive
EVI:Same:will be somewhat less than the frequency of an atom of the same element
EVI:Must:specifications of position must always be sought in accordance with the
EVI:Measuring:measuring-rods, clocks and freely moving material points.
SEQ:Inertia:Weight
SEQ:Space:Considerations
EVI:These:four-dimensional, space-time continuum. We called these “Galileian
EVI:Equally:equally justifiable:
SEQ:Theory:Becomes
SEQ:Volunteer:Support
EVI:Fashion:fashion, so that readers unfamiliar with physics may not feel like the
EVI:Diagonals:long. To ensure the equality of the diagonals, we make use of a little
SEQ:Dependent:Orientation
SEQ:Essential:Velocity
EVI:Valid:formulated in a law, which is always valid, no matter how the
CON:Fifteenth
EVI:Believe:should be constrained to believe that natural laws are capable of being
SEQ:Maintain:Previous
REL:Validity:Euclidean
EVI:Euclidean:propositions of Euclidean geometry by the single proposition that two
EVI:Including:including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
EVI:Number:number which tells us how often the rod has to be laid down is the
CON:Moreover
EVI:Known:natural processes, the laws of which are already known when a
SEQ:Theory:Than
CON:Equivalence
EVI:Alteration:the alteration of the energy. It is owing to this circumstance that
SEQ:Theoretical:Physics
EVI:Floor:the floor of the chest with an accelerated relative motion. The
SEQ:Velocity:Reach
EVI:Little:manner to the little rods (or perhaps not at all) by the temperature of
SEQ:State:Applicable
SEQ:Always:Fulfill
EVI:Object:body (body of reference) with which that event or object coincides.
EVI:Ordinates:relative to a system of co-ordinates rigidly attached to the ground
SEQ:Ordinates:Euclidean
EVI:Formulation:equal right and equal success in the formulation of the general laws of
EVI:Disdainful:After further consideration you cast a somewhat disdainful glance at
SEQ:Disc:Regards
EVI:Laws:1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
EVI:Every:value of _v_ belong to every point on the surface of the table. We call
EVI:Making:satisfactory manner by making a more subtle stipulation about the
SEQ:Form:Renders
EVI:Than:space means nothing else than that we imagine an epitome of our “space”
SEQ:Gravitational:Fields
REL:Proceed:Disclose
EVI:Section:The considerations of Section XX show that the general principle of
SEQ:Bodies:Replace
EVI:System:rectangular co-ordinate system by a new system with its axes pointing
EVI:Project:phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
SEQ:Train:Travelling
SEQ:Single:System
SEQ:Mentioned:Self
EVI:Reaching:colour of the light reaching us from them. The latter effect manifests
EVI:Moving:phenomena connected with moving bodies show that experience in this
EVI:Relativity:problems to which we are led by the general postulate of relativity.
EVI:Relative:so that they are at rest relative to it. We now ask ourselves whether
SEQ:Evident:Practice
SEQ:Kind:Express
SEQ:Slab:Laid
EVI:Behaviour:reference-body _K_. The behaviour of measuring-rods and clocks with
EVI:Hold:of energy should hold not only with reference to a co-ordinate system
SEQ:Rotating:System
EVI:Rest:the clock goes more slowly than when at rest. Here also the velocity
CON:Others
EVI:Relative:relative position of which in the four-dimensional continuum is given
EVI:Defined:London” is a well-defined point, to which a name has been assigned, and
SEQ:Space:Itself
EVI:System:rigidly attached to a rigid body. Referred to a system of co-ordinates,
REL:Portion:Empty
EVI:Cannot:cannot be read by your equipment.
SEQ:These:Designate
EVI:Inclined:should be supplied with an arrangement (_e.g._ two mirrors inclined at
CON:Lodged
EVI:What:principle immaterial to what reference-body we refer the motion. As
SEQ:Course:Time
EVI:Founded:this sense is founded exclusively on rather incomplete experience. For
SEQ:Because:Mean
SEQ:Motionless:Liquid
SEQ:Astoundingly:Simple
EVI:Like:rod in common with the first. We proceed in like manner with each of
SEQ:Instance:Powerful
EVI:Deductions:complete that it becomes difficult to find any deductions in which the
SEQ:Pretence:Having
SEQ:Powerful:Argument
SEQ:Potential:Does
SEQ:Dimensional:Measurements
EVI:Here:[2] Here we have assumed that there is nothing left over _i.e._ that
SEQ:Real:Position
SEQ:Time:Domain
CON:Demand
SEQ:Space:World
EVI:Each:embankment _in each second_ of time. But, according to the foregoing
EVI:Continuum:Space is a three-dimensional continuum. By this we mean that it is
EVI:Either:abandon either the principle of relativity or the simple law of the
SEQ:Without:Proceeding
EVI:Dependent:_An atom absorbs or emits light of a frequency which is dependent on
SEQ:World:Sense
EVI:Suitably:of motion has been suitably chosen. _K_ is then a Galileian
SEQ:Description:Motion
EVI:Colours:exactness that this velocity is the same for all colours, because if
EVI:Tension:of the tension of the rope is the _gravitational mass_ of the suspended
CON:Entertain
EVI:Book:The present book is intended, as far as possible, to give an exact
EVI:Imagine:space means nothing else than that we imagine an epitome of our “space”
EVI:According:less quickly, according to the position in which the clock is situated
CON:Themselves
EVI:Goes:and the general theory of relativity on the other. This agreement goes
EVI:Values:determine the corresponding values of the time by the observation of
SEQ:Quickly:According
SEQ:Postulate:Relativity
REL:Reflection:Detailed
SEQ:Rope:Just
SEQ:Light:Means
EVI:Temperature:manner to the little rods (or perhaps not at all) by the temperature of
REL:Forth:Section
EVI:Special:special theory of relativity.
CON:Poised
EVI:Change:the change in the energy of the body. The inertial mass of a system of
SEQ:Cannot:Depend
EVI:Theory:and if Newton’s theory be strictly correct, we ought to obtain for the
EVI:Given:In consideration of the expression given above for the kinetic energy
EVI:Gaussian:XXV. Gaussian Co-ordinates
EVI:Defined:With reference to our little rods—defined as unit lengths—the marble
EVI:Light:of light (Doppler principle). The experimental arguments in favour of
EVI:Work:other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
EVI:Length:the mid-point _M_ of the length _A_ → _B_ of the embankment. But the
CON:Symmetry
EVI:Time:determined by applying the definition of time given in Section VIII.
EVI:Small:velocities that are small compared with the velocity of light; hence we
EVI:Being:_i.e._ a smaller value than π, the difference being the more
EVI:Must:directly with the reality. But, on the other hand, these results must
SEQ:Often:Contended
EVI:Embankment:Lightning has struck the rails on our railway embankment at two places
EVI:Solution:solution of which the general theory of relativity supplies the key,
EVI:Astronomical:Astronomical Society for the investigation of this important deduction.
EVI:Cannot:medium. If, for instance, a magnet attracts a piece of iron, we cannot
EVI:According:direction according to the theory of relativity. The question now
SEQ:Access:Anyone
SEQ:Radius:Disc
SEQ:Terms:Work
EVI:Interference:Michelson and Morley performed an experiment involving interference in
EVI:Moving:point. Thus for a co-ordinate system moving with the earth the mirror
EVI:Also:events _A_ and _B_ also correspond to positions _A_ and _B_ on the
CON:Suitable
SEQ:Path:Same
EVI:Universe:theory rather requires that the universe should have a kind of centre
EVI:Different:mechanical behaviour is different from that of the case previously
SEQ:Form:Euclidean
SEQ:Modification:Complication
EVI:Call:uniformly. We call its motion a uniform translation (“uniform” because
EVI:Inside:an observer inside who is equipped with apparatus. Gravitation
EVI:Unit:from _K′_, of a unit measuring-rod which is at rest relative to _K_. In
EVI:Should:_K_ should be in the direction of the _x_-axis. A simple consideration
EVI:Time:disposal the means of measuring time. It would thus appear as though we
EVI:Reason:transmitted to this body, and for this reason the body will approach
SEQ:Path:When
EVI:Copying:claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
CON:Knew
CON:Process
EVI:Special:the gravitational field under consideration is of a special kind. In
EVI:Relativity:as follows: The special theory of relativity has reference to Galileian
EVI:Theories:assumptions of the two theories. In what follows, we shall again
SEQ:Revolution:Planet
EVI:Obtain:we obtain the equations
EVI:Equations:Now assuming that the Maxwell-Lorentz equations hold for a
EVI:Strike:the lightning must always strike the places _A_ and _B_ simultaneously,
EVI:When:numbers. I only need state how many rods I must pass over when,
SEQ:Give:Reader
SEQ:Between:Events
EVI:Each:etc., which are moving uniformly relative to each other, will not be
EVI:Grebe:it is difficult to form an opinion as to its existence. Whereas Grebe
EVI:Following:forth in the following table of results:
EVI:Then:then we should be faced with the task of testing whether or not this
EVI:Measuring:measured with the standard measuring-rod, combined with the
EVI:Rigid:For this reason non-rigid reference-bodies are used, which are as a
SEQ:Only:Thus
EVI:Child:velocity of light _c_ (in vacuum) is justifiably believed by the child
EVI:United:outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.
EVI:Reach:would reach him simultaneously, _i.e._ they would meet just where he is
EVI:Amount:small amount. This non-rigid reference-body, which might appropriately
EVI:When:the same way_ as regards the influence of temperature when they are on
EVI:Cause:Defect you cause.
CON:Offers
EVI:Gravitational:gravitational field is of a kind that would not be possible on Newton’s
EVI:Surface:passing through the surface _F_ of the sphere into its interior is
CON:Build
SEQ:Statement:Time
EVI:Comes:and he consequently comes to the conclusion that the chest is suspended
EVI:Draw:Suppose we draw lines or stretch strings in all directions from a
EVI:Inevitable:clearness, it appeared to me inevitable that I should repeat myself
EVI:Test:appearance, practically all of which must nevertheless escape the test
EVI:Body:the body of reference. But we have just seen that this assumption is
EVI:Again:[Note] The equation E = mc2 has been thoroughly proved time and again
EVI:Space:“rigid” bodies. In this sense we _can_ imagine a spherical space.
EVI:Grown:of relativity has grown out of electrodynamics and optics. In these
SEQ:Axioms:Question
EVI:Particular:of the encounter of the hands of clocks with particular points on the
EVI:Without:copyright restrictions so cannot be added without the permission of the
EVI:Expressed:induction. Theories are evolved and are expressed in short compass as
EVI:Numbers:of two sets of numbers with the points of the surface considered, of
SEQ:Virus:Computer
EVI:Sure:point to point without executing “jumps.” I am sure the reader will
CON:Ordinary
EVI:Resembling:reference-body let us imagine a spacious chest resembling a room with
EVI:Euclidean:the continuum under consideration may be regarded as Euclidean
SEQ:Most:Celebrated
EVI:Unless:the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
SEQ:Does:Then
SEQ:Proprietary:Form
SEQ:Planets:Solar
EVI:Possible:structure the largest possible logical unity. The practice, for
EVI:Refer:law of inertia. So that if we adhere to this law we must refer these
EVI:Care:not only to _two_ events, but to as many events as we care to choose,
EVI:Important:($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
EVI:Reader:These inadequate remarks can give the reader only a vague notion of the
EVI:Embankment:(_a_) The carriage is in motion relative to the embankment,
CON:Diminished
EVI:Seen:even if I have never before seen a gas flame. For I can only say that
EVI:Language:Language: English
CON:Foregoing
CON:Change
SEQ:Light:Signal
EVI:Distributing:distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
EVI:Being:matter as being something that is known. We know from experience that,
EVI:Sections:The results of the last three sections show that the apparent
EVI:Influence:would necessarily be scattered under the influence of their mutual
EVI:Known:known how this incongruity is to be overcome.
SEQ:Other:Corner
CON:Derivative
REL:Index:Refraction
SEQ:Line:Definite
CON:Concerns
EVI:Reason:strike you as being very singular, and for that reason I shall now draw
EVI:Total:registration of stars during a total eclipse of the sun. The only
EVI:Natural:mass. If this natural law did not exist, the man in the accelerated
EVI:Even:(_c_) We speak of the height of the cloud even when the pole which
EVI:Hand:is the index of refraction of the liquid. On the other hand, owing to
EVI:Structure:IV. The Structure of Space According to the General Theory of Relativity (supplementary to section XXXII)
EVI:Carriage:carriage as reference-body as when the rails are the body of reference.
EVI:Embankment:with respect to the railway embankment? Is there a thinkable answer to
SEQ:Reference:Without
EVI:Reference:reference, which we have styled a “railway embankment.” We suppose a
EVI:Have:theory rather requires that the universe should have a kind of centre
SEQ:Latter:Developed
EVI:Your:destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
EVI:Lines:an encounter is expressed in the fact that the two lines which
EVI:Physical:result of an analysis of the physical conceptions of time and space, it
EVI:Problem:We should thus have the solution of our problem, if the constants _a_
EVI:Above:But, from our above consideration, this would appear to be impossible.
EVI:Require:is fulfilled in an actual case. We thus require a definition of
EVI:Hence:Hence the observer will see the beam of light emitted from _B_ earlier
EVI:Always:points on a practically rigid body always correspond to the same
EVI:Fulfilled:is fulfilled in an actual case. We thus require a definition of
EVI:Given:disc, will, in accordance with Section XII, be given by
SEQ:Following:Demands
SEQ:Give:Question
EVI:Body:independent of the nature and the condition of the body and always the
EVI:Regarded:space-time continuum cannot be regarded as a Euclidean one, but that
EVI:Then:did not possess this velocity, then he would remain permanently at M,
SEQ:Motion:Orbit
SEQ:Disc:Observed
EVI:Time:XXVI. The Space-Time Continuum of the Special Theory of Relativity Considered as a Euclidean Continuum
CON:Compatible
SEQ:Examination:Correctness
SEQ:Length:Floor
EVI:Relative:obtain photographs of the solar eclipse of 29th May, 1919. The relative
SEQ:Chest:Rope
SEQ:Somewhat:Less
EVI:Velocity:velocities that are small compared with the velocity of light; hence we
EVI:Cannot:Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread
EVI:Statement:this phenomenon was given by H. A. Lorentz long before the statement of
EVI:Distribution:of a gravitational field. Nevertheless, the space-distribution of this
EVI:Since:Hypothesis (2) appeared unavoidable to me at the time, since I thought
EVI:Discovered:the galactic line-shift discovered by Hubble as an expansion (which can
SEQ:Compared:Area
EVI:Times:It was at all times clear that, from the point of view of the idea it
CON:Intermediary
SEQ:Energy:Impulse
EVI:Discover:1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
SEQ:Between:Masses
EVI:Galileian:does not hold, then the Galileian co-ordinate systems _K, K′, K″_,
EVI:System:_K_ = co-ordinate system
EVI:Escape:In order to escape this dilemma, Seeliger suggested a modification of
EVI:Gutenberg:visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.
EVI:Consider:consider it with reference to the accelerated chest (reference-body
EVI:Limiting:Of course this feature of the velocity _c_ as a limiting velocity also
EVI:Fundamental:present the fundamental ideas of the special theory of relativity.
SEQ:Detail:Later
SEQ:Providing:Copies
EVI:Another:transition from one Galileian system to another, which is moving
EVI:Other:other are associated with neighbouring points “in space.”
EVI:Certainly:certainly regard everyone with disdain who should pronounce even the
EVI:Heavenly:supplies us with the actual motions of the heavenly bodies with a
EVI:Necessarily:direction of the velocity of the carriage would necessarily play a
EVI:Different:space, _i.e._ a physical non-equivalence of different directions. This
SEQ:Pages:Shall
EVI:Sides:arrangement of the remaining two sides of the square is already
EVI:Foundation:other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
SEQ:Experimental:Test
EVI:System:changes in energy _E_0 to which we can subject a system are not large
EVI:Principle:can combine this with the principle of relativity, and sum up the
SEQ:Basis:Considerations
SEQ:Indicated:People
SEQ:Gravitation:Point
EVI:Expect:followed the preceding discussion are almost sure to expect that we
EVI:Only:theory of relativity, but only after a hypothetical term was added to
EVI:Releases:room of a home on our earth. If he releases a body which he previously
SEQ:Already:Remarked
EVI:General:From our consideration of the accelerated chest we see that a general
SEQ:Investigate:Further
EVI:Fall:puzzled for a moment as to why the chest does not fall in this
EVI:Space:discussed. The inherited prejudices about time and space did not allow
SEQ:Able:Find
EVI:Construction:identical construction will go at different rates when situated at
EVI:Universe:necessarily be _nil_. Thus such a universe could not be inhabited by
SEQ:Result:According
EVI:Combined:measured with the standard measuring-rod, combined with the
EVI:Life:life. If I analyse the place specification “Trafalgar Square,
REL:Expansion:Space
EVI:Constant:is fulfilled in general, where λ indicates a constant; for, according
SEQ:Most:Proposition
EVI:Only:only events which are localised on the _x_-axis. Any such event is
EVI:Independent:(1) The time-interval (time) between two events is independent of the
SEQ:World:Difficulties
SEQ:Constancy:Velocity
EVI:Right:claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
EVI:Rigid:London”[3] I arrive at the following result. The earth is the rigid
SEQ:Light:Doppler
EVI:Surface:But the spherical-surface beings do not need to go on a world-tour in
SEQ:Using:Distributing
SEQ:Relativity:Justified
EVI:Great:than _c_, however great may be the energies used to produce the
EVI:Find:of attraction into the calculation, we find that, according to this new
EVI:Recognised:correct (“true”) when it has been derived in the recognised manner from
EVI:Experience:to objects of experience, but only with the logical connection of these
SEQ:Indeed:Every
EVI:Equations:outside the _x_-axis, is obtained by retaining equations (8) and
EVI:Even:surprised at this, even if I have never seen either a gas range or a
EVI:Introduce:the carriage, we introduce a point moving relatively to the co-ordinate
EVI:Certain:theory of relativity. As a consequence, I am guilty of a certain
SEQ:Considered:Whole
SEQ:Means:Rods
EVI:Formal:the Gauss co-ordinate system is the (really unjustified) formal
SEQ:Theorem:Addition
SEQ:Wonder:Carry
EVI:Uniquely:property of being uniquely determined by two points situated on it. The
SEQ:Motion:Planets
EVI:Starting:starting point diverge farther and farther from one another, but later
EVI:Obtaining:possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
EVI:Possessed:copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
EVI:Variant:transformation. Or in brief: General laws of nature are co-variant with
SEQ:Judged:Reference
EVI:Second:In addition, a second photograph of the same stars is taken when the
EVI:Rods:determine the behaviour of the rods relative to the _u_-curves and
EVI:Derivative:displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
EVI:Plan:distance can be measured up. It is the simplest plan to use the train
EVI:During:constituting the electron remain unchanged during the motion of the
EVI:Between:words: Can we conceive of a relation between place and time of the
EVI:Dimensional:_x, y_ = two-dimensional co-ordinates
SEQ:Choosing:Corner
EVI:Formal:purely formal addition to our knowledge, the theory perforce gained
EVI:General:The theory of gravitation derived in this way from the general
SEQ:About:Millionths
REL:Inertial:Gravitational
SEQ:Variably:Heated
SEQ:Section:Given
EVI:Fundamental:conditions required by the fundamental law of Galilei. It is then
SEQ:However:Discovers
SEQ:Investigation:Physics
REL:Body:Reference
SEQ:Validity:Results
EVI:Travels:Light travels in a motionless liquid with a particular velocity _w_.
SEQ:Express:Follows
SEQ:Disc:These
EVI:Further:After further consideration you cast a somewhat disdainful glance at
EVI:Straight:direction, but that it would still be uniform and in a straight line.
EVI:Associated:[1] It follows that a natural object is associated also with a
EVI:Place:If in place of the law of transmission of light we had taken as our
EVI:Starting:“counter-point” to the starting point. Under such conditions they have
CON:Goes
EVI:Circle:I admit that the ratio of the circumference _c_ of a circle to its
EVI:Physicists:experiment gave a negative result—a fact very perplexing to physicists.
SEQ:Seem:Natural
EVI:Permanently:that the latter clock goes at a rate permanently slower than that of
EVI:Relativity:stars until we come to speak of the general theory of relativity. In
EVI:Works:law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
CON:Equipment
EVI:Hold:The following statements hold generally: Every physical description
SEQ:Vaguely:Indicated
SEQ:Seen:Above
EVI:Works:electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
CON:Slight
SEQ:Cannot:Survive
SEQ:Between:Principle
EVI:Space:the space-time coincidence of two events _A_ and _B_. In terms of
CON:Favour
EVI:Correct:and if Newton’s theory be strictly correct, we ought to obtain for the
SEQ:Phenomena:Briefly
SEQ:Clock:Then
EVI:Other:each other. Here the Gaussian coordinates are simply Cartesian ones. It
SEQ:Universe:Behaves
SEQ:Discussion:Section
EVI:Science:of evolution of an empirical science to be a continuous process of
SEQ:Time:Time
EVI:Confronted:[20] Mathematicians have been confronted with our problem in the
EVI:Based:displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
SEQ:Gutenberg:Website
SEQ:Carriage:Express
SEQ:Experience:Thus
CON:Help
EVI:Those:lead directly to those of the former for the case in which the fields
EVI:Square:or, if we square this equation, according to the equation
EVI:Instead:minimum. If instead of Newton’s law we insert a somewhat different law
SEQ:Discovered:Hubble
CON:Discovery
SEQ:Proportional:Square
SEQ:Origin:Then
EVI:Important:problem”) has had an important development, which ought to be mentioned
EVI:Later:one, for reasons which will become evident at a later stage.
EVI:Added:Note: The fifth Appendix was added by Einstein at the time of the
SEQ:Statements:Conception
EVI:Months:sun is situated at another position in the sky, _i.e._ a few months
EVI:Lines:sun,[22] and a displacement of the spectral lines of light reaching us
SEQ:Retain:Principle
CON:Raised
SEQ:Himself:Acceleration
EVI:Cartesian:impossible to construct a Cartesian co-ordinate system from equal rods,
EVI:Domain:reference-body as regards the domain considered, and the results of the
SEQ:Ways:Including
EVI:Body:mass_ of the body.” Guided by this example, we see that our extension
SEQ:Both:These
EVI:Light:to the tube are thus known, and we require the velocity of light
EVI:Magnitudes:where the magnitudes _g_11, etc., have values which vary with the
EVI:Compared:compared with the velocity of light. We have experience of such rapid
SEQ:Those:Ideas
EVI:Length:_x_-axis with respect to _K_, then we should have found that the length
EVI:Shall:Before we deal with this, we shall introduce the following incidental
EVI:Greater:these became meaningless if we choose values of _v_ greater than _c_.
SEQ:Holder:Work
EVI:Circle:were moving here in a logical circle.”
EVI:Works:Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
EVI:Such:continuum. In the same way, any such lines in our continuum correspond
EVI:Tacitly:be arbitrary, although it was always tacitly made even before the
CON:Inner
SEQ:Continuum:Under
EVI:Lorentz:Maxwell-Lorentz theory of electromagnetic phenomena. Thus all facts of
EVI:Relativity:conviction that, according to the general principle of relativity, the
SEQ:Manner:Arrangement
EVI:Only:always possible. It is only possible when sufficiently small regions of
SEQ:Chest:Suspended
EVI:Somewhat:seconds, _i.e._ a somewhat larger time. As a consequence of its motion
REL:Rules:Geometry
SEQ:Same:Effect
SEQ:Distasteful:Conception
EVI:Life:from people in all walks of life.
EVI:Light:to wit, the curvature of light rays by the gravitational field of the
CON:Bands
EVI:Thought:But no person whose mode of thought is logical can rest satisfied with
EVI:These:light_, and that by systematically holding fast to both these laws a
EVI:Stars:the stars and also individual stars of the stellar system are
SEQ:Taken:Eliminate
REL:Carriage:Again
REL:Forth:Detail
EVI:Clear:significance of the statement is clear in itself and needs no further
SEQ:Through:Intermediate
REL:Maxwell:Electrodynamics
SEQ:Each:Refers
SEQ:Every:Physical
EVI:Energy:changes in energy _E_0 to which we can subject a system are not large
EVI:Feel:fashion, so that readers unfamiliar with physics may not feel like the
EVI:Corresponds:transformation (not only the Lorentz transformation) corresponds to the
SEQ:Differing:Classical
REL:Table:Spread
EVI:Disc:from _K_, if it is applied to the disc in the direction of the radius.
SEQ:Best:Knowledge
EVI:Fixed:stars, if we could disregard the motion of the fixed stars themselves
EVI:Indicate:another, shall indicate position and time directly. Such was the
SEQ:Theory:Admit
SEQ:Bodies:States
EVI:Rigid:points on a rigid body, we can construct the line joining them
CON:Contradictory
EVI:Electrical:we now assume that the relative distances between the electrical masses
EVI:Purely:purely formal addition to our knowledge, the theory perforce gained
EVI:Influenced:also influenced by gravitational fields, and in such a way that a
EVI:Seized:The non-mathematician is seized by a mysterious shuddering when he
SEQ:Occult:More
CON:Fittingly
CON:Consequential
EVI:Elliptical:An elliptical universe can thus be considered to some extent as a
SEQ:Likewise:Behaviour
SEQ:Enables:Predict
SEQ:Them:Preferred
CON:Mutually
SEQ:Velocity:Hence
EVI:Gravitational:Relying on his knowledge of the gravitational field (as it was
CON:Efforts
EVI:Ordinate:point. Thus for a co-ordinate system moving with the earth the mirror
SEQ:Fittingly:Called
SEQ:Collection:Public
EVI:Straight:uniformly in a straight line. With reference to K (Galileian
CON:Drift
REL:Classes:Experimental
SEQ:Principle:Have
EVI:Project:Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™
SEQ:Deeply:Habit
REL:Distribution:Matter
SEQ:Body:State
SEQ:Carriage:Window
EVI:Natural:etc., are equivalent for the description of natural phenomena
SEQ:Stars:Move
EVI:Provide:Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
SEQ:Body:Serves
EVI:Photographs:discrepancies to be expected between the stellar photographs obtained
SEQ:Important:Maintaining
SEQ:Each:Time
CON:Rough
SEQ:These:Magnitudes
SEQ:Itself:Number
EVI:Gravitational:same laws, even in the case where the prevailing gravitational field is
SEQ:Referred:Second
CON:Looked
EVI:Emerged:science has emerged from its initial stages, theoretical advances are
EVI:Object:object in space is based on the specification of the point on a rigid
EVI:Uniformly:not hold with respect to the non-uniformly moving carriage. Because of
SEQ:Motion:Still
SEQ:Violates:State
EVI:Supplies:specification of the position of the foot of the pole, supplies us with
SEQ:Attempts:Nature
SEQ:Furthermore:Principle
CON:Impossible
EVI:Present:observation possible at the present time; but that in the case of
EVI:Detection:would necessarily escape detection.[26]
EVI:Gained:result we have gained a powerful argument for a generalised postulate
CON:Ones
EVI:These:energy and the law of the conservation of mass these two fundamental
EVI:Only:of the surface one and only one curve must pass. Thus a perfectly
EVI:Allow:discussed. The inherited prejudices about time and space did not allow
CON:Together
SEQ:Over:Question
CON:Numbering
SEQ:Attracts:Piece
EVI:Above:after it has been corrected for the influences mentioned above, is not
SEQ:Curves:Thus
SEQ:Characterised:Infinitely
CON:Correct
EVI:Beings:Thus if the spherical surface beings are living on a planet of which
EVI:Floor:strings to the floor, otherwise the slightest impact against the floor
EVI:Certainly:hypothesis about the law of propagation of light; it must certainly be
EVI:General:then these general laws of nature (_e.g._ the laws of mechanics or the
EVI:Bodies:of bodies relative to the person in the railway carriage. The
EVI:Naturally:naturally does not exist for this observer. He must fasten himself with
EVI:Some:find after some consideration that the answer to this question is not
EVI:Factor:classical mechanics; the Lorentz transformation is the deciding factor
CON:Turn
SEQ:Natural:Process
EVI:Further:have no further difficulty in understanding the methods leading to the
EVI:Replacement:of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
EVI:Gaussian:(Gaussian co-ordinates). For example, the point _P_ in the diagram has
EVI:Body:points on a rigid body, we can construct the line joining them
EVI:Preceding:embankment) have already been defined in detail in the preceding
SEQ:Relativity:Excels
SEQ:Result:Accordance
EVI:Relativity:simultaneous with respect to the train, and _vice versa_ (relativity of
SEQ:Directly:Intensity
SEQ:Between:Have
SEQ:Convincingly:Intellect
SEQ:Reality:Least
SEQ:Transformation:Replace
CON:Zeal
CON:Updated
EVI:Book:In the first part of this book we were able to make use of space-time
SEQ:Produced:Surface
SEQ:Embankment:Places
CON:Body
SEQ:Transmission:Relative
EVI:Case:motions only in the case of electrons and ions; for other motions the
EVI:Observed:correct the observed motion of the planets for these two influences,
CON:Attainable
EVI:Laws:called a “Galileian system of co-ordinates.” The laws of the mechanics
SEQ:State:Motion
EVI:Define:rods, and we cannot define Cartesian co-ordinates _in the surface_.
CON:Kind
SEQ:Entirely:Without
SEQ:Closed:Spaces
EVI:Rays:rays required by the general theory of relativity is only exceedingly
EVI:Appears:on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
CON:Crommelin
REL:Distribution:Electronic
CON:Accessed
SEQ:Physicist:When
CON:Shows
EVI:Measuring:measuring-rods and clocks, arranged rigidly with respect to one
EVI:Until:dissatisfied until I have discovered some circumstance to which I can
EVI:Whether:question whether or not the motion of the earth in space can be made
EVI:First:universe, considered as a whole, is to be regarded, the first answer
EVI:According:_The same_ quality of a body manifests itself according to
EVI:Corresponding:time by corresponding values _x′, y′, z′, t′_, which of course are not
EVI:Lines:the line joining the free ends of these lines a “circle.” For a plane
EVI:Only:the solar system occupies only a negligibly small part of the spherical
SEQ:Counter:Point
CON:Told
EVI:Equations:since the equations of the Lorentz transformation were derived
CON:Wonder
EVI:Line:may indicate the distance (line-interval) between _P_ and _P′_, as
EVI:Distributing:distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
SEQ:Neither:Reference
EVI:Travelling:Let us consider two particular points on the train [8] travelling along
EVI:Previous:Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will
EVI:Foundation:Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
EVI:Examine:positions of the clocks. We shall now examine this dependence
EVI:Gutenberg:1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
EVI:Pursuit:gravitation. In point of fact, the systematic pursuit of the general
EVI:Likewise:(_a_) The required generalisation must likewise satisfy the general
EVI:Geometrical:other half by the geometrical modification (“curvature”) of space
EVI:Clocks:influence of the gravitational field on measuring-rods, clocks and
EVI:Transport:unit of mass against the centrifugal force in order to transport it
EVI:Jerk:occupant of the carriage experiences a correspondingly powerful jerk
EVI:Line:see the stone descend in a straight line. A pedestrian who observes the
SEQ:Physical:Theory
CON:Inaccuracy
CON:Entity
SEQ:Seeliger:Suggested
REL:Region:Emptiness
EVI:Order:Geometry ought to refrain from such a course, in order to give to its
SEQ:Have:Styled
EVI:Respect:(directed towards the negative _x_-axis) of a point of _K_ with respect
SEQ:Gauss:Ordinates
EVI:Learn:a gravitational field _G_ (of a particular kind). We learn the
CON:Successive
EVI:View:to doubt the validity of this principle of relativity. But in view of
EVI:Distance:train. Let _M′_ be the mid-point of the distance _A_ → _B_ on the
SEQ:Deduced:Readily
CON:Downloading
EVI:Donations:with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
REL:Changes:Position
SEQ:Same:Space
SEQ:Result:Great
SEQ:Require:External
SEQ:Immense:Radius
CON:Island
SEQ:Without:Success
EVI:Light:detailed examination of the question shows that the curvature of light
SEQ:Presents:Itself
SEQ:Came:About
EVI:Foundation:has neither empirical nor theoretical foundation. We can imagine
EVI:Your:U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.
SEQ:Without:Widespread
CON:Departs
SEQ:Everywhere:Same
EVI:Eccentricity:eccentricity, _c_ the velocity of light, and _T_ the period of
SEQ:Basis:Derivation
REL:Perplexing:Physicists
SEQ:General:Facts
EVI:Problem:[20] Mathematicians have been confronted with our problem in the
EVI:Special:special kind. This hope has been realised in the most beautiful manner.
CON:Replacement
SEQ:Expression:Clocks
EVI:Prejudices:discussed. The inherited prejudices about time and space did not allow
EVI:Distance:distance _w_ relative to the railway line in a time which is equal to
EVI:Other:process a (large) number of times, or, in other words, by going from
CON:Spared
EVI:Observes:see the stone descend in a straight line. A pedestrian who observes the
CON:Systematically
EVI:Confine:If we confine the application of the theory to the case where the
EVI:Determine:The equations (6) and (7_b_) determine the constants _a_ and _b_. By
EVI:Comparatively:By means of comparatively simple considerations we are led to draw the
SEQ:Number:Identical
EVI:Only:can be represented in the Maxwell-Lorentz theory only by the
EVI:Stars:stars, if we could disregard the motion of the fixed stars themselves
REL:Statement:Clear
SEQ:Distribute:Project
SEQ:Holds:Most
SEQ:Respect:System
EVI:Somewhat:somewhat arbitrary one. We shall only mention that with its aid
EVI:Make:calculation, deviations from the theory of Newton make their
EVI:Able:indeed, they will no longer be able to demonstrate that they are on a
SEQ:Embankment:Natural
EVI:Nobody:(retardation) of the carriage. But he is compelled by nobody to refer
EVI:Difference:If we represent the difference of potential of the centrifugal force
SEQ:Manner:Object
EVI:Length:Let us now imagine that a large number of little rods of equal length
SEQ:Period:Application
EVI:Appreciably:fields it has not appreciably altered the predictions of theory, but it
SEQ:Involves:Disappearance
EVI:Without:one can be laid on any other without the ends overlapping. We next lay
SEQ:Perceptible:Change
CON:Changes
EVI:Opposition:absolute physical reality to non-uniform motion, in opposition to the
SEQ:Computer:Virus
EVI:Drawn:marble slab. In like manner we imagine a system of _v_-curves drawn on
EVI:Result:“Euclidean” four-dimensional continuum, a result which follows from the
EVI:Dilemma:In order to escape this dilemma, Seeliger suggested a modification of
SEQ:Fact:Other
CON:Impenetrability
SEQ:Laws:These
SEQ:Section:Chest
REL:Interpreted:Regard
EVI:Hold:cannot hold exactly on the rotating disc, nor in general in a
SEQ:Gutenberg:Synonymous
EVI:Sent:for the reference-body _K′_. A light-signal is sent along the positive
CON:Occasion
EVI:According:Gauss indicated the principles according to which we can treat the
EVI:Hand:inherent to the subject. On the other hand, I have purposely treated
REL:Itself:Sufficiently
EVI:Amount:complete revolution by an amount given by
EVI:Assumed:be assumed relative to the earth, and for a long time the efforts of
SEQ:Field:Must
SEQ:Volunteers:Employees
SEQ:Body:Thus
SEQ:Time:Respect
EVI:Motion:indicated, which are due to the relative motion of the earth with
SEQ:Planes:Mirrors
EVI:Absent:_i.e._ domains in which gravitational fields are absent. If we now
SEQ:Definite:Magnitudes
SEQ:Comprehensive:Statement
EVI:Staircase:staircase of which you were chased about for uncounted hours by
EVI:Possible:(2π2_R_3). Is it possible to imagine a spherical space? To imagine a
CON:Eliminate
SEQ:Measured:Same
SEQ:Important:Idea
EVI:Direction:direction of its length with a velocity _v_ is
REL:Resuits:These
EVI:Reference:reference-body for the description of any event (for this, too, is
EVI:Rigid:logically rigid theory could be arrived at. This theory has been called
CON:Forty
SEQ:Accessed:Displayed
EVI:Matter:reality the detailed distribution of matter is not uniform, the real
REL:Properties:Terrestrial
EVI:Other:translational motion relative to each other. Relative to other
EVI:Editions:Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will
EVI:Considerations:It is clear from our previous considerations that the (special) theory
SEQ:Cases:Also
SEQ:Body:Direction
SEQ:Opposes:Theory
SEQ:Deviate:Individual
CON:Localised
CON:Conclude
EVI:Velocity:of light relative to the liquid and the velocity of the latter relative
SEQ:Theory:Long
SEQ:Difficulty:Interpretation
REL:Discussion:Section
EVI:Guilty:theory of relativity. As a consequence, I am guilty of a certain
EVI:Need:getting into the greatest difficulties. We only need to think of the
EVI:Maximum:up to a maximum value which is determined by the “world-radius,” but
EVI:Present:the sun (_S_) were not present, a star which is practically infinitely
SEQ:Compared:Spectral
EVI:Lorentz:clearly follows from the equations of the Lorentz transformation, for
CON:Rectilinear
SEQ:Different:Directions
SEQ:Velocity:Inquire
SEQ:Physicist:Greatest
EVI:Copyright:works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
EVI:When:clock is at rest, then the “rate” of the clock (_v_) when it is moving
SEQ:Equation:Thoroughly
EVI:Things:things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
SEQ:Hypothetical:Space
SEQ:Should:Pronounce
EVI:Again:grows from a minimum to a maximum, and then decreases again to a
CON:Sole
SEQ:Displaying:Sentence
SEQ:Hovering:Over
EVI:Identical:rate_ if they are of identical construction. Stated more exactly: When
SEQ:System:Stars
EVI:Profound:also lead, and this despite the profound difference in the fundamental
EVI:Donations:public support and donations to carry out its mission of
EVI:Credit:ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
EVI:Substitute:is satisficd identically. That is to say: If we substitute their
EVI:System:space-time by a single system of values _x_1, _x_2, _x_3, _x_4. Thus
EVI:Chest:tension in the rope, the man in the chest will say: “The suspended body
EVI:Appendix:APPENDIX II
EVI:Ordinates:_x, y_ = two-dimensional co-ordinates
EVI:Axis:_K_ should be in the direction of the _x_-axis. A simple consideration
SEQ:Also:Stated
SEQ:Mathematics:Since
SEQ:Shows:According
SEQ:Kinetic:Energy
REL:Able:Find
EVI:Pulling:us) begins pulling at this with a constant force. The chest together
SEQ:Accord:Then
EVI:Expansive:only in the sense of Doppler’s principle, as an expansive motion of the
SEQ:Intensity:Field
EVI:Last:it has long been known that the last question is not only unanswerable
CON:Remedies
EVI:Process:field influences the process studied.
CON:Begin
EVI:Space:Space is a three-dimensional continuum. By this we mean that it is
CON:Becomes
SEQ:Furthermore:Regard
CON:Perpetually
EVI:Trom:latter been developed trom electrodynamics as an astoundingly simple
EVI:Field:experiences a downward force in the gravitational field, and this is
EVI:Then:which is rigidly attached to the earth, then, relative to this system,
EVI:Expression:but by the expression
SEQ:Finite:Infinite
REL:Principle:Such
CON:Deal
EVI:Expression:that motion. the contracted length being proportional to the expression
EVI:Always:formulated in a law, which is always valid, no matter how the
EVI:Transformation:This system of equations is often termed the “Galilei transformation.”
REL:Live:Infinite
EVI:Actually:following section we shall show to what extent this is actually the
CON:Unjustified
CON:Settled
EVI:Considerations:But the considerations of Sections XXV and XXVI show us the way to
EVI:Embankment:along the embankment. In the first place we require to determine the
EVI:Motion:In order to have a _complete_ description of the motion, we must
EVI:Xxiv:XXIV. Euclidean and non-Euclidean Continuum
EVI:Follows:We can sum this up as follows: Gauss invented a method for the
EVI:Particular:nature, and was obtained by the use of particular hypotheses as to the
EVI:Extent:extent. But as regards the deductions from the theories which are
EVI:United:This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
SEQ:Terrestrial:Experiments
SEQ:Because:Little
EVI:Relatively:light plays the part of the man walking along relatively to the
EVI:Determined:property of being uniquely determined by two points situated on it. The
SEQ:Efforts:Donations
EVI:Minkowski:_x_2, _x_3, _x_4, was called “world” by Minkowski, who also termed a
EVI:Short:delicacy of detail little short of wonderful. The principle of
EVI:Arranged:measuring-rods and clocks, arranged rigidly with respect to one
EVI:Represented:distance 1 (relative to _K_) will be represented on our snapshot by the
SEQ:Second:Judged
EVI:Hours:staircase of which you were chased about for uncounted hours by
EVI:Particularly:satisfactorily than without it, and this applies particularly to the
EVI:Fact:gravitation. In point of fact, the systematic pursuit of the general
EVI:Endeavour:pains in his endeavour to present the main ideas in the simplest and
SEQ:Take:Part
SEQ:Smallness:Effect
CON:Lives
SEQ:Whereas:Only
EVI:Also:consider these important deductions, and we shall also discuss the
EVI:System:to a second Galileian system we shall suppose that the corresponding
EVI:Special:of a special kind is then present with respect to these bodies (cf.
EVI:Light:propagation of light must necessarily hold with respect to the
SEQ:Preserve:Free
SEQ:Considerably:Simplified
SEQ:Sufficiently:Other
EVI:Connection:co-ordinates when a gravitational field is present. In connection with
EVI:Only:and of the little rods, about which I can only be thankfully surprised.
EVI:Have:However, the Gauss treatment for _ds_2 which we have given above is not
EVI:Space:(2π2_R_3). Is it possible to imagine a spherical space? To imagine a
EVI:Treated:the mollusc is treated as a space-point, and every material point which
CON:Addition
EVI:States:law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
SEQ:Generalised:Lorentz
EVI:Long:claim an unlimited domain of validity; its results hold only so long as
EVI:Laws:contained in electrodynamics as a limiting case; the laws of the latter
EVI:Alike:on the range are two pans so much alike that one may be mistaken for
EVI:Vary:where the magnitudes _g_11, etc., have values which vary with the
SEQ:Influence:Temperature
SEQ:Generalisation:Discussion
EVI:Euclidean:three-dimensional continuum of Euclidean geometrical space.[14] In
SEQ:Electronic:Work
CON:Random
EVI:Necessary:hundredths of a millimetre only. Thus great accuracy was necessary in
SEQ:Large:Required
EVI:Theories:two theories differ from each other. As an example, a case of general
SEQ:Permanently:Situated
SEQ:Then:Closed
EVI:Even:even in a popular presentation of the subject.
SEQ:Ought:Also
EVI:Beam:embankment) he is hastening towards the beam of light coming from _B_,
EVI:Generally:generally accepted by physicists even if experiment had decided less
SEQ:Must:Identical
EVI:Anyone:trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
EVI:Gutenberg:Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
EVI:Respect:space with respect to _K_ by the three perpendiculars _x, y, z_ on the
EVI:Raven:the motion of the raven would be one of different velocity and
SEQ:Here:Have
SEQ:Earth:Then
EVI:Connected:transmission. This is connected with the fact that the velocity _c_
CON:Transformation
EVI:Prominence:order to give due prominence to this relationship, however, we must
SEQ:Obtained:Delicacy
SEQ:Magnitudes:Always
SEQ:Alterations:Form
EVI:Revolving:planet which is revolving round the sun would describe an ellipse round
SEQ:Present:However
SEQ:Most:Beautiful
SEQ:Confirmed:During
EVI:General:According also to the general theory of relativity, which differs of
CON:Thanks
CON:Limits
EVI:Behaviour:detecting the effect of temperature than the geometrical behaviour of
EVI:Einstein:Thanks to: Einstein Reference Archive (marxists.org)
SEQ:Most:Remarkable
EVI:Uniform:reality the detailed distribution of matter is not uniform, the real
CON:Proven
EVI:Answer:that the answer to this question might be in the negative.
SEQ:Following:Section
SEQ:Mode:Consideration
SEQ:Direction:Radius
SEQ:Measurement:Comparison
EVI:More:with the much more comprehensive statement called “the principle of
EVI:Single:propositions of Euclidean geometry by the single proposition that two
SEQ:Square:Equation
EVI:Rods:manner to the little rods (or perhaps not at all) by the temperature of
EVI:Previous:It is clear from our previous considerations that the (special) theory
CON:Definitions
SEQ:Regard:Geometry
SEQ:Accelerated:Relative
EVI:Executing:executing a uniform translatory motion with respect to _K_. In
EVI:Forwards:carriage experiences a jerk forwards as a result of the application of
EVI:Treatment:However, the Gauss treatment for _ds_2 which we have given above is not
EVI:Convenience:convenience the constants _a_ and _b_ in place of the constants λ and μ
EVI:Geometry:constrained to call the propositions of geometry “true.” Geometrical
SEQ:Connection:Fundamental
EVI:Series:perpendiculars can be determined by a series of manipulations with
EVI:Circumstance:obtained by measuring in the train itself. This circumstance leads us
CON:Theorie
SEQ:Other:Obtain
EVI:Should:motion as our body of reference. We should then be justified (because
EVI:Large:process a (large) number of times, or, in other words, by going from
CON:Index
CON:Answer
EVI:Space:that suggests itself to us is surely this: As regards space (and time)
SEQ:Information:Page
EVI:Planets:has been confirmed for all the planets save one, with the precision
EVI:Development:development of electrodynamics the laws of electrostatics were looked
EVI:Holder:with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
EVI:Einstein:Note: The fifth Appendix was added by Einstein at the time of the
SEQ:Edition:Little
EVI:Relativity:introduction of the theory of relativity.
EVI:Carriage:to a system of co-ordinates rigidly attached to the carriage, but
CON:Beginning
EVI:Body:large enough to effect the acceleration of the body. That which
SEQ:Differences:Time
EVI:Take:description. The Gauss co-ordinate system has to take the place of the
SEQ:Relativity:Method
EVI:Volunteer:volunteer support.
EVI:Line:a straight line when the points _A_ and _C_ being given, _B_ is chosen
SEQ:Particular:Case
CON:Construct
SEQ:Position:Replace
SEQ:Even:Regarded
EVI:Then:train_,—then this distance—_as measured from the embankment_ is not
SEQ:Terms:Project
CON:Appendix
SEQ:Load:Conscience
EVI:Then:then these general laws of nature (_e.g._ the laws of mechanics or the
EVI:Lightning:and the light rays emitted by the flashes of lightning _A_ and _B_
EVI:Reference:But in addition to K, all bodies of reference _K′_ should be given
EVI:Ordinate:the carriage, we introduce a point moving relatively to the co-ordinate
SEQ:Terms:Full
CON:Gutenberg
EVI:Smaller:thus comes out smaller than _c_.
SEQ:Judged:Gravitational
CON:Rests
EVI:Extended:the _special theory of relativity_ to distinguish it from the extended
SEQ:Angular:Velocity
SEQ:Result:Earth
EVI:Theoretical:necessary consequence. Prominent theoretical physicists were therefore
CON:Deviated
SEQ:Foundation:Copy
REL:Data:Astronomy
SEQ:Explanation:Person
SEQ:Also:Field
EVI:Commercial:license, especially commercial redistribution.
EVI:Remaining:disturbing influences exerted on Mercury by the remaining planets, it
SEQ:Plays:Exactly
EVI:Centre:outwards from this centre the group-density of the stars should
CON:Interpretation
EVI:Other:These _u_-curves must not intersect each other, and through each point
EVI:Available:remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
SEQ:Have:Before
EVI:Vertical:vertical direction by means of a framework of rods, so that an event
SEQ:Carriage:Travelling
EVI:Reality:whether or not these displacements are to be referred in reality to the
EVI:Cannot:classical mechanics, cannot be maintained; in other words, the law that
SEQ:Maintained:Because
EVI:Mechanics:Even though classical mechanics does not supply us with a sufficiently
EVI:Absent:field is absent _i.e._ which have already been fitted into the frame of
EVI:Compared:which gives the “mollusc” a certain comprehensibility as compared with
SEQ:When:Liquid
EVI:Atom:_An atom absorbs or emits light of a frequency which is dependent on
REL:Four:These
SEQ:Observations:Double
SEQ:Shall:Remain
SEQ:Thought:Theory
SEQ:Results:Theory
EVI:Gained:purely formal addition to our knowledge, the theory perforce gained
CON:Just
EVI:Rods:With reference to our little rods—defined as unit lengths—the marble
SEQ:Unsolicited:Donations
SEQ:Point:Name
SEQ:Treating:Dimensional
CON:Stage
SEQ:Hardly:Doubted
EVI:Only:claim an unlimited domain of validity; its results hold only so long as
EVI:Point:observer placed at the mid-point M of the distance _AB_. This observer
SEQ:Rods:Withal
SEQ:Interaction:Other
EVI:Apply:relativity must therefore apply with great accuracy in the domain of
EVI:Railway:situated. Now in reality (considered with reference to the railway
EVI:Foci:of gravity, lies in one of the foci of the orbital ellipse in such a
SEQ:Erecting:Pole
EVI:Geometrical:PHYSICAL MEANING OF GEOMETRICAL PROPOSITIONS
SEQ:Local:Variation
SEQ:Point:Mass
SEQ:Body:Free
REL:Deviate:Individual
EVI:Full:even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
EVI:Such:the sun and the planet. In such a system, the sun, or the common centre
SEQ:Directly:Indirectly
REL:Interpreted:Make
EVI:Have:co-ordinates and times of events have not been defined, we cannot
EVI:Three:a curve, which we “three-dimensional beings” designate as a great
EVI:Ordinates:these two numbers the co-ordinates of the surface of the table
SEQ:Start:Website
SEQ:Cause:Occur
SEQ:Disorder:During
EVI:Particular:represent the motions of the points in question have a particular
SEQ:Formulate:Aims
SEQ:Reference:Should
EVI:Placed:organpipe placed with its axis parallel to the direction of travel
EVI:Inside:Galilei transformation (Section XI). In place of the man walking inside
EVI:Other:since there are other things which are not influenced in a similar
SEQ:Conflict:Laws
EVI:Specification:object in space is based on the specification of the point on a rigid
SEQ:Experiment:Concerned
SEQ:Motion:Straight
EVI:Much:considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
EVI:Electrons:(electrons) of very small inertia and large velocity. By examining the
SEQ:Newton:Make
EVI:Carriage:carriage) remains permanently at rest. With reference to it, however,
EVI:Between:(2) The space-interval (distance) between two points of a rigid body is
SEQ:Round:Ellipse
SEQ:Rectangular:Ordinates
SEQ:Xviii:Special
SEQ:Physical:Meaning
SEQ:Anywhere:United
CON:Increasing
CON:Perplexing
SEQ:Gravitation:Hubble
EVI:Appear:immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
EVI:Respect:rectilinear motion with respect to _K_ (in accordance with the law of
EVI:Role:forms, in which the time co-ordinate plays exactly the same role as the
EVI:Need:this, we need only ask where the beginning of the rod and the end of
CON:Widespread
EVI:Certainly:fixed stars are bodies for which the law of inertia certainly holds to
EVI:Find:If now, as we find from experience, the acceleration is to be
EVI:Preferred:able to state a reason why one of them is to be preferred to the
SEQ:About:Physical
SEQ:Terms:Trademark
SEQ:Yielded:Closure
SEQ:Release:Date
SEQ:Naturally:Maintain
SEQ:Carriage:Again
EVI:Curvature:curvature being similar to that experienced by the path of a body which
EVI:Process:man advance relative to the embankment during the process? The only
SEQ:Stars:Present
SEQ:Mean:Measure
SEQ:Axis:Appear
EVI:Manner:different places in such a manner that, if _A_ is simultaneous with
EVI:Surmount:was necessary to surmount a serious difficulty, and as this lies deep
EVI:Revolution:(_N.B._—One complete revolution corresponds to the angle 2π in the
CON:Closure
EVI:Weight:circumstances as “inertia” or as “weight” (lit. “heaviness”). In the
CON:Indeed
SEQ:Diagonals:Make
EVI:Straight:with things called “straight lines,” to each of which is ascribed the
CON:Crystallised
SEQ:Principle:Rather
EVI:Space:space-time by a single system of values _x_1, _x_2, _x_3, _x_4. Thus
SEQ:Sobral:Brazil
EVI:Simultaneous:are always simultaneous (in the sense of the above definition).
SEQ:Principle:Physical
CON:Intended
EVI:Shall:the second considered. We shall see later that this result, which
EVI:General:necessary until we come to deal with the general theory of relativity,
EVI:Compared:universe has a finite area that can be compared with the area, of a
EVI:Body:straight line. Three points _A, B_ and _C_ on a rigid body thus lie in
REL:Laws:Mechanics
EVI:Points:points on a rigid body, we can construct the line joining them
SEQ:Bluish:Something
EVI:First:uniformly with reference to the first, the equations of the Lorentz
EVI:Gutenberg:1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
EVI:Equipped:equipped two expeditions—to Sobral (Brazil), and to the island of
EVI:Ordinate:uniformly in a straight line with respect to a co-ordinate system _K_,
SEQ:Prejudices:About
EVI:Geometry:Euclidean geometry hold for “distances;” the “distance” being
EVI:Light:effects produced on the light reaching us from the fixed stars. These
EVI:Spectral:[27] The displacement of spectral lines towards the red end of the
EVI:Section:function of a straight line. In the manner indicated in Section II we
EVI:Mercury:perihelial movement of the orbit of Mercury remained over, the amount
EVI:Equal:Euclidean geometry of the plane, equal to a constant value π, which is
EVI:Rest:rest, and the more quickly it is moving, the shorter is the rod. For
EVI:Hold:the same mechanical laws hold relatively to the non-uniformly moving
EVI:Case:of the case clearer by means of an appropriate comparison. Before the
EVI:Judged:Galileian reference-body _K_. As judged from this body, the clock at
EVI:Period:there exists (during the period of application of the brakes) a
CON:Gravity
SEQ:Resembling:Room
EVI:Respect:with respect to a Galileian reference-body _K_ by the space co-ordinate
SEQ:Appear:Called
SEQ:Also:Respect
EVI:Depend:able to show that the velocity of propagation of light cannot depend on
CON:Preserve
SEQ:Particular:Point
SEQ:Imagine:After
EVI:Surface:extends exclusively over the surface of the sphere. Are these beings
EVI:Transformation:the condition of transformation in exactly the same way as the space
REL:Ebooks:Compliance
SEQ:Difference:Between
SEQ:Standpoint:Theory
EVI:Hence:introduction of the æther-idea, and hence there can be no æther-drift,
EVI:Gutenberg:will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
CON:Preface
EVI:Consideration:From our consideration of the accelerated chest we see that a general
EVI:Time:result of an analysis of the physical conceptions of time and space, it
EVI:Lorentz:since the equations of the Lorentz transformation were derived
CON:Raise
SEQ:Complete:Place
EVI:Equality:in Section XXI; nor in interpreting the empirical law of the equality
SEQ:Making:Following
EVI:Faced:then we should be faced with the task of testing whether or not this
EVI:Introduction:introduction of the theory of relativity.
SEQ:Individual:Observations
SEQ:System:Values
EVI:Foundations:the empirical physical foundations of the theory in a “step-motherly”
SEQ:Short:Wonderful
SEQ:Gaussian:Coordinates
EVI:Important:by our actual knowledge, played an important part in this process of
EVI:Behaviour:determine the behaviour of the rods relative to the _u_-curves and
EVI:Towards:will cause him to rise slowly towards the ceiling of the room.
EVI:Density:outwards from this centre the group-density of the stars should
EVI:Generally:The following statements hold generally: Every physical description
SEQ:Tested:Agreement
SEQ:Brazil:Island
EVI:Demand:light. There is only _one_ demand to be made of the definition of
EVI:Decision:At all events, a definite decision will be reached during the next few
EVI:Attenuated:travel through space, we should find everywhere an attenuated swarm of
EVI:Gravitation:field equations of gravitation. Hubble’s discovery can, therefore, be
EVI:Should:the velocity _v_ = _c_ we should have
EVI:Universe:universe cannot be quasi-Euclidean. On the contrary, the results of
EVI:Principle:according to the principle of relativity, be the same for the railway
EVI:Gravitational:relative to _K_ (relative to _K′_ a gravitational field prevails).
EVI:Conservation:the conservation of energy, and is only valid provided that the system
SEQ:Satisfy:Requirement
SEQ:Full:Length
EVI:When:clock per unit time (“rate” of the clock) relative to _K_ when the
SEQ:Allow:Disclaimers
SEQ:Remaining:Propositions
EVI:Proposition:follow from those axioms, _i.e._ they are proven. A proposition is then
SEQ:Other:Galileian
EVI:Measurements:According to recent and most excellent measurements by Zeeman, the
SEQ:Itself:Cannot
SEQ:Required:Taking
EVI:Light:we should expect that a ray of light which is passing close to a
EVI:Body:his own reference-body occupied by the stone at each tick of the clock
EVI:Material:Galileian law of the uniform rectilinear motion of “isolated” material
EVI:Imagine:framework. Similarly, we can imagine the train travelling with the
EVI:Project:concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
EVI:Sufficient:or with sufficient accuracy by
SEQ:Writing:Expression
SEQ:Plane:Surface
SEQ:Section:Answer
SEQ:Numbers:Them
EVI:Movement:orbital motion. The value obtained for this rotary movement of the
EVI:Following:following section we shall show to what extent this is actually the
SEQ:Xxviii:Exact
SEQ:Satisfied:Allow
EVI:Find:so far, that up to the present we have been able to find only a few
EVI:Mathematical:This is a definite mathematical condition that the theory of relativity
SEQ:Only:Dealing
EVI:Rendered:basis of theory. The special theory of relativity has rendered the
EVI:Measuring:measuring-rod. All the free end-points of these lengths lie on a
CON:Having
SEQ:Belong:Every
SEQ:Interpretation:According
EVI:Dimensional:A four-dimensional continuum described by the “co-ordinates” _x_1,
CON:Xxxi
EVI:System:to a system of co-ordinates rigidly attached to the carriage, but
SEQ:Only:Assumption
EVI:Disk:intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
CON:Coordinates
EVI:Formulate:sins against the sacred spirit of lucidity were I to formulate the aims
EVI:Rotation:of the planet. Theory requires that this rotation should amount to 43
EVI:Equations:clearly follows from the equations of the Lorentz transformation, for
EVI:Distance:magnitude _ds_ the “distance” apart of the two events or
EVI:More:satisfactory manner by making a more subtle stipulation about the
SEQ:Detected:Delicacy
EVI:Light:A light-signal, which is proceeding along the positive axis of _x_, is
EVI:Education:of theoretical physics. The work presumes a standard of education
SEQ:Discovering:Whether
SEQ:Measuring:Rest
EVI:Work:work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.
EVI:States:in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
EVI:Gutenberg:Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
EVI:Value:0. For this value of _t_ we then obtain from the first of the equations
EVI:Considerations:PART III: CONSIDERATIONS ON THE UNIVERSE AS A WHOLE
REL:Form:Radiation
SEQ:Train:Rigid
CON:Likewise
EVI:Principles:first principles, without making use of the fact that the surface
EVI:Exactly:cannot hold exactly on the rotating disc, nor in general in a
SEQ:Emitted:Continuously
CON:Solicit
EVI:Fall:“If we pick up a stone and then let it go, why does it fall to the
EVI:Have:you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
SEQ:Respect:Coordinate
EVI:Expresses:It expresses _x′, y′, x′, t′_, in terms of linear homogeneous functions
SEQ:Make:Case
EVI:Perihelion:perihelion with precision.
EVI:Just:dials. It is just the same in the case of space-measurements by means
EVI:Using:before using this eBook.
EVI:Time:with respect to time. Under the influence of this field, the embankment
EVI:Theory:first approximation the Newtonian theory. Thus the latter theory is
SEQ:Familiar:English
SEQ:Physics:Statement
EVI:Known:Galilei-Newton, which is known as the _law of inertia_, can be stated
EVI:Lightning:Lightning has struck the rails on our railway embankment at two places
EVI:Observation:determine the corresponding values of the time by the observation of
SEQ:Replace:Usual
EVI:Other:Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
EVI:License:START: FULL LICENSE
CON:Immediately
EVI:Theory:[24] _Proof_—According to the theory of Newton, the number of “lines
EVI:Terrestrial:the same spectral lines when they are produced by a terrestrial source
EVI:Result:motion is physically unique. This result was interpreted physically by
EVI:Must:velocity of light _c_. The velocity must therefore always remain less
SEQ:Travelling:Along
CON:Hope
EVI:Line:differ from 360°. The line of the orbit would not then be a closed one
EVI:Project:of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
CON:Appreciably
EVI:Being:curvature being similar to that experienced by the path of a body which
SEQ:Influence:Velocity
EVI:Rest:which the electrical masses are quite at rest relatively to each other,
SEQ:Case:Electrons
EVI:Motion:motion. Returning to the illustration we have frequently used of the
SEQ:Time:Variables
CON:Electrical
EVI:Outside:outside of this plane: that which they observe to happen to themselves
SEQ:Warranty:Breach
EVI:Ways:ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
EVI:Void:unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
EVI:Literary:1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
EVI:Body:body of reference, we stated nothing more than the encounters of this
SEQ:Towards:Predicted
CON:Royal
EVI:Society:We are indebted to the [British] Royal Society and to the Royal
EVI:Imagine:definition of time. We have to imagine each of these clocks fixed at a
EVI:Motion:themselves evident in practice. We shall not consider the motion of
SEQ:Ideas:Space
SEQ:Thus:Also
SEQ:Simultaneous:Plays
EVI:Observers:footpath the other. Each of the observers determines the position on
SEQ:Part:However
SEQ:Relative:Consequence
CON:Clearer
EVI:Emitted:emitted continuously from the one pan, but not from the other. I am
SEQ:Common:After
EVI:Light:path of the same ray of light is no longer a straight line when we
CON:Removed
EVI:Observer:itself as reference-body (co-ordinate system). An observer in the train
EVI:Fixed:relative motions of the fixed stars with respect to the earth on the
SEQ:Origin:Characterise
EVI:Hereupon:gravitational field _G_. Hereupon we introduce a hypothesis: that the
SEQ:Derived:Means
SEQ:Owner:Agent
EVI:Foundation:Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
REL:Condition:Uniform
EVI:Make:agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
EVI:Relativity:IX. The Relativity of Simultaneity
EVI:Supplementary:I. Simple Derivation of the Lorentz Transformation (supplementary to section XI)
EVI:Exception:attainable at the present time. The sole exception is Mercury, the
EVI:Years:years. If the displacement of spectral lines towards the red by the
SEQ:Only:Actual
SEQ:Quantity:Regard
EVI:Theory:THE SPACE-TIME CONTINUUM OF THE GENERAL THEORY OF RELATIVITY IS NOT A
SEQ:Confirmed:Experiment
EVI:Data:data does not allow of any definite decision being arrived at, as to
EVI:Likewise:likewise the behaviour of “isolated” material points; the latter move
CON:Appear
REL:Performances:Research
EVI:System:conservation of the mass of a system becomes identical with the law of
EVI:Small:provided they do not use too small a piece of it. Starting from a
EVI:Breach:LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
SEQ:Orbit:Then
EVI:Statements:The following statements hold generally: Every physical description
SEQ:Compared:Replace
SEQ:Factor:Involved
EVI:Logical:But no person whose mode of thought is logical can rest satisfied with
SEQ:Constrained:Raise
CON:Coincide
CON:Arise
EVI:Anyone:This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
EVI:Thus:light takes place according to this equation. We thus see that the
CON:Below
EVI:Consequence:of the carriage. As a consequence of his walking, however, he traverses
EVI:Propagation:THE APPARENT INCOMPATIBILITY OF THE LAW OF PROPAGATION OF LIGHT WITH
EVI:Form:statements of a large number of individual observations in the form of
SEQ:Rotating:Disc
EVI:Clock:ticks of this clock. The first and fourth equations of the Lorentz
EVI:Absorbs:with the velocity _v_, which absorbs[11] an amount of energy _E_0 in
EVI:License:license, especially commercial redistribution.
EVI:Direction:the length of the carriage in the direction of travel with a velocity
EVI:Ebooks:Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may
EVI:Relative:special theory of relativity hold relative to _K_. Let us suppose the
SEQ:General:Built
CON:Hand
EVI:Body:respect to the body of reference chosen in the particular case in
EVI:Values:less than 4π_r_2. With increasing values of _r, F_ increases from zero
SEQ:Distributed:Uniformly
EVI:Plays:system _K_, the liquid plays the part of the carriage or of the
EVI:Regions:always possible. It is only possible when sufficiently small regions of
SEQ:During:Next
EVI:Lengths:event to those three plane surfaces. The lengths of these three
SEQ:Between:Neighbouring
SEQ:Manner:Time
REL:Able:Learn
SEQ:Circumstances:Inertia
EVI:United:country other than the United States.
SEQ:Except:Right
EVI:Physical:about the physical behaviour of measuring-rods and clocks from the
EVI:Meaning:It is clear that this definition can be used to give an exact meaning
EVI:Disc:with his measuring-rod and then the diameter of the disc, on dividing
EVI:Every:Then every event which takes place along the line also takes place at a
EVI:Including:including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
SEQ:Possible:Mean
SEQ:Elliptical:Universe
SEQ:Same:Complex
SEQ:Circle:System
EVI:Disclaimer:damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
SEQ:Ordinates:Directly
EVI:Case:require any external agency for its maintenance, _e.g._ in the case
EVI:Domain:domain leads conclusively to a theory of electromagnetic phenomena, of
SEQ:Respect:Carriage
SEQ:Minkowski:Found
SEQ:Distributed:Anyone
EVI:Both:have to do with places and times relative both to the train and to the
EVI:Forward:Before the theory of relativity was put forward, it was difficult to
EVI:More:replaced by a more complicated law conformable to the principle of
EVI:Another:repulsions, unless there are forces of another kind operating between
SEQ:Means:Comparatively
EVI:Axes:be generalised. Obviously it is immaterial whether the axes of _K′_ be
CON:Nature
EVI:Does:whilst the other does not, then I shall remain astonished and
SEQ:Flow:Propagation
EVI:Spherical:universe will deviate in individual parts from the spherical, _i.e._
EVI:Uniform:at a uniform rate. As long as it is moving uniformly, the occupant of
EVI:Replacement:with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
SEQ:Able:Associate
REL:Proceed:Like
CON:Seek
SEQ:Gutenberg:Removed
SEQ:Result:Measurements
EVI:Transmission:are small as compared with the velocity of transmission of light. We
EVI:Reality:theoretical result is in accordance with the reality. We encounter the
SEQ:Elliptical:Excels
SEQ:Redistributing:Providing
SEQ:Clocks:Identical
EVI:Although:resulting when the motion is parallel to these planes. Although the
SEQ:Mechanics:Need
SEQ:Such:Kind
EVI:Reported:electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
EVI:Brilliant:experiment which the brilliant physicist Fizeau performed more than
EVI:Special:Moreover, according to the special principle of relativity, this
EVI:Corresponding:so close together as to give continuity; corresponding to the material
SEQ:Minkowski:Naturally
SEQ:Rotation:Should
EVI:Find:the flying raven from the moving railway carriage. we should find that
EVI:Mention:high time that we remedy this defect; but I would mention at the
CON:Statement
EVI:Stars:stars until we come to speak of the general theory of relativity. In
REL:Country:Addition
EVI:Place:freely-moving material points continues to take place according to the
EVI:Reality:mature consideration the reader will doubtless admit that in reality
EVI:Conceivable:universe. But it is conceivable that our universe differs only slightly
EVI:Relativity:relativity.
EVI:Must:order to give due prominence to this relationship, however, we must
EVI:Formulation:out that this formulation must be replaced later by a more abstract
EVI:Consideration:consideration. These two numbers are then the “Cartesian co-ordinates”
SEQ:Reality:Straight
EVI:Carried:aid, since the above construction can no longer be carried out. But
EVI:Centre:the centre of the disc has no velocity, whereas the clock at the edge
EVI:Slab:slab is no longer a Euclidean continuum, and we are also no longer in
EVI:Later:return later. If the principle of relativity (in the restricted sense)
CON:Mature
SEQ:Undertook:Task
EVI:Elliptical:universe would necessarily be spherical (or elliptical). Since in
EVI:Relativity:At this juncture the theory of relativity entered the arena. As a
EVI:Second:same domain referred to a second body of reference _K′_, which is
EVI:License:Gutenberg™ License.
SEQ:Real:Space
EVI:Observer:The observer performs experiments on his circular disc with clocks and
EVI:Expeditions:[16] By means of the star photographs of two expeditions equipped by a
SEQ:Velocity:Does
SEQ:Arcs:Circles
EVI:Must:naturally does not exist for this observer. He must fasten himself with
SEQ:Equations:Introducing
SEQ:Capable:Being
CON:Expense
EVI:Considerations:My original considerations on the subject were based on two hypotheses:
CON:Overthrown
SEQ:Exclusive:Cause
EVI:Outset:Nevertheless, there are two general facts which at the outset speak
EVI:Satisfactory:satisfactory manner. The rectangular components of the observed and of
EVI:Supplementary:(SUPPLEMENTARY TO SECTION XXXII)
SEQ:System:Liquid
EVI:Nothing:is nothing else than the energy possessed by the body[12] before it
SEQ:Propositions:True
CON:Separate
SEQ:Photographed:During
SEQ:Particular:Importance
SEQ:Means:First
EVI:Line:point, we thus have a (uni-dimensional) line in the four-dimensional
EVI:Instantaneous:as instantaneous actions at a distance (not involving an intermediary
EVI:Moving:[12] As judged from a co-ordinate system moving with the body.
SEQ:Example:Seeing
SEQ:Interval:Marking
SEQ:Through:Points
EVI:Lorentz:Galilei transformation or the Lorentz transformation corresponds to the
EVI:Least:gravitational field, at least if we attribute the length 1 to the rod
EVI:Sense:general sense from two kinds of transformations, viz. from Lorentz
EVI:Relativity:abandon either the principle of relativity or the simple law of the
EVI:Second:to a second objection which must be raised against the apparently
EVI:Line:railway line. Here the following method suggests itself. If we call
SEQ:Even:Case
EVI:Newsletter:subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
SEQ:Acceleration:Does
EVI:Such:hope of success in such an attempt; Let us imagine ourselves
EVI:Reference:reference _K′_, our consideration also teaches us how the gravitational
SEQ:Becoming:Convinced
SEQ:Lorentz:Fitzgerald
EVI:Space:four-dimensional space-time continuum.
SEQ:Treatment:Donations
EVI:System:Gaussian four-dimensional co-ordinate system chosen arbitrarily. That
EVI:General:the temptation to venture the step towards the general principle of
REL:Ground:Classical
SEQ:Theory:Same
CON:Imagine
SEQ:Other:Cease
CON:Neither
EVI:Immaterial:be generalised. Obviously it is immaterial whether the axes of _K′_ be
EVI:Damages:INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
EVI:Multi:to the method of Riemann of treating multi-dimensional, non-Euclidean
EVI:Place:along the embankment. In the first place we require to determine the
EVI:Dimensional:The four-dimensional mode of consideration of the “world” is natural on
EVI:Thus:bodies. By a suitable choice of units we can thus make this ratio equal
EVI:Belongs:definite value of _u_ belongs to every point on the surface of the
CON:Extension
REL:Minkowski:Naturally
EVI:Direction:we should therefore expect that the direction of motion of the earth at
EVI:Agreement:• You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
CON:Cannot
EVI:Moving:measuring-rods, clocks and freely moving material points.
EVI:Gravitational:electrical masses of an electron are held together by gravitational
EVI:Special:of deductions from the special theory of relativity, and in themselves
SEQ:Read:Your
EVI:Classified:some resemblance to the compilation of a classified catalogue. It is,
SEQ:Gutenberg:Name
EVI:Force:If we represent the difference of potential of the centrifugal force
EVI:Purely:transformations in the special sense and from purely spatial
EVI:Vacuo:which the law of the constancy of the velocity of light in vacuo is a
EVI:Slurs:process; for it slurs over the important part played by intuition and
EVI:Data:or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
EVI:Countries:what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
EVI:Simultaneity:itself when we attempt to apply our earlier definition of simultaneity
CON:Continues
CON:Full
EVI:Follows:It follows from what has been said, that closed spaces without limits
SEQ:Aged:Computers
EVI:Cartesian:as four-dimensional Cartesian co-ordinates. This was possible on the
SEQ:System:Abscissa
SEQ:Centre:Observer
EVI:Must:relativity must therefore apply with great accuracy in the domain of
EVI:Difficulties:presents insurmountable difficulties. If the observer applies his
SEQ:Times:Other
EVI:Axes:Fig. 2, the _x_-axes of both systems permanently coincide. In the
SEQ:Than:World
SEQ:Only:Vaguely
SEQ:Success:Formulation
EVI:View:interpretation is quite justified also from a physical point of view.
CON:Convention
EVI:Possesses:possesses a finite volume, which is determined by its “radius”
CON:Proprietary
CON:Affords
SEQ:Over:Surface
EVI:Relativity:principle of relativity, and the question arises: How have we to modify
EVI:Motions:motions only to systems of coordinates relative to which the fixed
EVI:Fields:way. Even though by no means all gravitationial fields can be produced
EVI:Between:introduce the hypothesis that the force of attraction between mutually
EVI:Spherical:the spherical universe. Our experience is far from being sufficient to
EVI:Formulated:formulated in a particularly simple manner, and of course only on
EVI:Line:lie “in reality” on a straight line or on a parabola? Moreover, what is
EVI:Farther:in such a case, but I do not wish to go any farther into this question.
REL:Possible:Preserve
SEQ:Keep:Ebooks
EVI:Show:for this preference?_” In order to show clearly what I mean by this
EVI:Experiment:A direct comparison of this relation with experiment is not possible at
SEQ:Inexperienced:Mathematics
SEQ:System:Regard
REL:Electrodynamics:Optics
EVI:Comparison:is too small in comparison with the mass _m_, which was present before
SEQ:Stars:Disregard
CON:Variations
CON:Long
EVI:Amount:with the velocity _v_, which absorbs[11] an amount of energy _E_0 in
EVI:Demands:demands of a natural law, and in virtue of this, the theory becomes a
EVI:Donations:against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
EVI:Foretold:which is foretold by the theory of relativity without the necessity of
EVI:Agreement:agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
EVI:Measuring:the use of divided measuring-rods, the introduction of which does not
EVI:Morley:system of Michelson and Morley is not shortened, but it _is_ shortened
EVI:Separate:retention of the separate existence of the
SEQ:Justified:Every
EVI:Choose:always choose another reference-body such that _no_ gravitational field
EVI:Without:which is foretold by the theory of relativity without the necessity of
EVI:Constancy:In this way we satisfy the postulate of the constancy of the velocity
SEQ:Such:Creation
EVI:Long:of the method used in discussing the special theory, and as long as the
CON:Repeating
CON:Gave
EVI:Definition:definition of time with the aid of clocks which are arranged at rest
CON:Electrodynamic
SEQ:Long:Mollusc
EVI:Following:following form. If we are given a surface (_e.g._ an ellipsoid) in
EVI:When:[7] We suppose further that, when three events _A, B_ and _C_ occur in
EVI:Ascii:other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
EVI:Points:other are associated with neighbouring points “in space.”
SEQ:Galileian:When
EVI:Unjustified:the Gauss co-ordinate system is the (really unjustified) formal
SEQ:Maximum:Proceed
SEQ:Attaching:Classical
EVI:Density:density of matter to be constant everywhere, even to infinity, without
REL:Expected:Astronomers
CON:Resemblance
EVI:Accurately:which holds most accurately, can be expressed in a different form in
EVI:Again:We start off again from quite special cases, which we have frequently
EVI:Able:we are able to disregard the influences of gravitational fields on the
SEQ:Express:Property
EVI:Considerable:considerable portion of the surface of the table.
SEQ:Think:Regardless
EVI:Natural:convincingly to the intellect because it is so natural and simple. The
EVI:Strict:assumption, which, in the light of a strict consideration, appears to
EVI:Attempt:itself when we attempt to apply our earlier definition of simultaneity
CON:Knows
REL:Earth:Space
EVI:Equal:distance _w_ relative to the railway line in a time which is equal to
EVI:Conception:ON THE RELATIVITY OF THE CONCEPTION OF DISTANCE
SEQ:Values:Ordinates
SEQ:Short:Assume
EVI:Defined:defined is fulfilled. That my definition satisfies this demand is
CON:Testing
EVI:Orbital:orbital ellipse was 43 seconds of arc per century, an amount ensured to
SEQ:Contraction:Direction
SEQ:Light:Stimulus
EVI:Renders:[13] The general theory of relativity renders it likely that the
EVI:Clocks:measuring-rods and clocks is influenced by gravitational fields, _i.e._
SEQ:Times:Classical
EVI:System:for a suitably chosen co-ordinate system, the velocities of the stars
EVI:Every:reason why we must wait for a total eclipse is because at every other
EVI:Ordinate:tube plays the part of the railway embankment or of the co-ordinate
EVI:Methods:methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
SEQ:Amount:Indicated
SEQ:Astronomical:Societies
EVI:Rigidly:measuring-rods and clocks, arranged rigidly with respect to one
EVI:Province:interest is available in the province of biology, in the Darwinian
EVI:Assignment:way, that only one meaning can be attached to the assignment, and that
SEQ:Accepted:Cannot
EVI:Second:respect to the second framework. Without committing any fundamental
EVI:Everywhere:travel through space, we should find everywhere an attenuated swarm of
REL:Only:Scientific
EVI:Time:In the first part of this book we were able to make use of space-time
CON:Principles
SEQ:Properties:Space
REL:State:Uniform
EVI:Density:ρ is the average density of the matter and _k_ is a constant connected
EVI:Very:This conception is in itself not very satisfactory. It is still less
EVI:Correspondence:designating always the correspondence with a “real” object; geometry,
EVI:Measuring:application of the measuring-rod along the embankment.
EVI:Velocity:with the velocity _v_, which absorbs[11] an amount of energy _E_0 in
SEQ:Renders:More
CON:Applicability
EVI:Fixed:fixed stars. This deduction, which can be tested with great accuracy,
EVI:Principe:Principe (West Africa)—and sent several of Britain’s most celebrated
SEQ:Epoch:Making
EVI:Question:appear to be called in question. In reality we must make a subtle
EVI:Passing:from any one point on this table to any other point by passing
EVI:Line:the line joining the free ends of these lines a “circle.” For a plane
CON:Electrostatics
EVI:Place:expressions in _x, y, x, t_, in place of _x′, y′, x′, t′_, on the
SEQ:Establish:Distance
EVI:Island:island in the infinite ocean of space.[24]
EVI:Idea:idea of relativity has supplied the laws satisfied by the gravitational
SEQ:Recent:Development
EVI:Rotating:valid from the standpoint of an observer who is rotating with the disc.
SEQ:Consider:Particular
EVI:Moving:man walking along the carriage, or of the moving point in the present
SEQ:Continuum:Just
EVI:Employ:and which we employ as a standard measure. If, now, _A_ and _B_ are two
SEQ:Following:Each
EVI:Creation:easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
SEQ:Same:Events
REL:Axes:Both
EVI:Electronically:lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
SEQ:Individual:Geometrical
EVI:Inertia:law of inertia. So that if we adhere to this law we must refer these
SEQ:Methods:Leading
EVI:Relativity:this is quite in accordance with the principle of relativity which
SEQ:Clear:Point
SEQ:Agreement:Volunteers
EVI:Proceeding:distance without our proceeding being in the highest measure grossly
CON:Corner
EVI:Nevertheless:of a gravitational field. Nevertheless, the space-distribution of this
EVI:However:however, we shall assume its correctness.
EVI:Dense:this “infinitely dense” system covers the whole surface of the table.
EVI:Only:(_b_) If there is any matter in the domain under consideration, only
EVI:Fundamental:of relativity, of which the fundamental ideas are developed in the
EVI:Lines:the same spectral lines when they are produced by a terrestrial source
EVI:Gutenberg:immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
SEQ:Preceding:Section
EVI:Finite:circle, _i.e._ a self-contained line of definite finite length, which
EVI:Perpendicular:perpendicular to each other marked out, and designated as “co-ordinate
EVI:Charge:1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
EVI:Meaning:assign an exact meaning to the natural laws in which these occur.
SEQ:Consider:Reference
SEQ:Diagonals:Equally
EVI:Diagram:in the diagram. Between the curves _u_ = 1 and _u_ = 2 we must imagine
SEQ:Leave:Immediately
EVI:Everywhere:density of matter to be constant everywhere, even to infinity, without
EVI:Evidence:empirical evidence appertaining to them which has hitherto been
EVI:Takes:to take for granted that the propagation of light always takes place
SEQ:Make:Comparison
EVI:Observations:be commissioned to determine by observations whether in the actual case
EVI:Fact:existence in the fact that it correlates a large number of single
SEQ:Relative:Recognised
EVI:Correlates:existence in the fact that it correlates a large number of single
CON:Division
EVI:Eclipse:confirmed during the solar eclipse of 29th May, 1919. (Cf. Appendix
SEQ:Different:Positions
EVI:Theory:relativity. According to the special theory of relativity, the
EVI:Must:even need to be of such a kind that we must regard _x_1, _x_2, _x_3, as
EVI:Claims:outset, that this matter lays no small claims on the patience and on
EVI:Amount:contraction of the body in the direction of motion, the amount of
EVI:Itself:itself in a slight displacement of the spectral lines of the light
SEQ:Together:Earth
CON:Here
SEQ:Gutenberg:Associated
SEQ:Form:Electron
EVI:Manner:special kind. This hope has been realised in the most beautiful manner.
SEQ:Propagation:Relative
SEQ:Course:More
SEQ:Relativity:Supplementary
EVI:Represented:The Lorentz transformation represented by (8) and (9) still requires to
SEQ:Equation:Then
EVI:Presents:presents insurmountable difficulties. If the observer applies his
EVI:Space:meant here by motion “in space”? From the considerations of the
SEQ:Considered:Respect
SEQ:Given:Well
EVI:Only:such encounters constitute the only actual evidence of a time-space
SEQ:Momentary:Existence
CON:Nebulae
SEQ:Loses:Meaning
SEQ:Choose:Values
SEQ:Mechanics:Time
EVI:Applies:This applies not only to scientific description, but also to everyday
EVI:Euclidean:down by Euclidean geometry.
SEQ:Ground:Usual
EVI:Inquire:the embankment with the velocity _v_, and inquire as to their distance
SEQ:Process:Large
SEQ:Figure:Square
EVI:Written:Written: 1916 (this revised edition: 1924)
EVI:Have:particularly St. John, have been led to the opposite opinion in
SEQ:Fields:Regarded
EVI:Planets:Planets of our solar system its magnitude should be so small that it
EVI:Displacement:(_c_) Displacement of Spectral Lines Towards the Red
SEQ:Even:Without
SEQ:Undergone:Fundamental
REL:Possible:Associate
SEQ:Deflection:Light
EVI:Practice:In practice, the question is tested in the following way. The stars in
CON:Published
SEQ:Nothing:Else
EVI:Numbers:every point of the continuum (event) four numbers, _x_1, _x_2, _x_3,
SEQ:Considered:Events
CON:Trajectory
EVI:Acquainted:We are acquainted with space-time domains which behave (approximately)
EVI:Principle:this juncture the question of the validity of the principle of
SEQ:Generality:Should
EVI:Expanse:between the space-expanse of the universe and the average density of
SEQ:Strokes:Simultaneous
SEQ:Adhere:Must
SEQ:Event:Matter
EVI:Belongs:which belongs to two adjacent points of the four-dimensional space-time
SEQ:Relative:Exists
EVI:Presents:in Section VI becomes invalid. The possibility presents itself that the
EVI:Line:the galactic line-shift discovered by Hubble as an expansion (which can
EVI:Electron:arrive at a law of motion of the electron which does not agree with
CON:Pulling
REL:Order:Attain
EVI:Newton:and if Newton’s theory be strictly correct, we ought to obtain for the
EVI:Towards:present time (1920) astronomers are working with great zeal towards the
EVI:Result:result of observation in astronomy, against which classical mechanics
EVI:Galileian:Certain considerations suggest that we should refer the same Galileian
EVI:Body:same domain referred to a second body of reference _K′_, which is
SEQ:Means:Owns
SEQ:Equations:Express
CON:Asking
SEQ:Individual:Rods
EVI:Points:number of points in the neighbourhood of this one, the position of
EVI:Reflecting:arranged on a rigid body that the reflecting surfaces face each other.
SEQ:Idea:Relativity
SEQ:Though:Classical
SEQ:Itself:When
EVI:Mass:material point of mass _m_ is no longer given by the well-known
EVI:According:interpretation, and which, according to Section XXVI, can be regarded
EVI:Elegance:of elegance ought to be left to the tailor and to the cobbler. I make
EVI:Fixed:effects produced on the light reaching us from the fixed stars. These
EVI:Propositions:constrained to call the propositions of geometry “true.” Geometrical
EVI:Investigation:investigation, and to which the physics of pre-relativity days does not
SEQ:Provided:System
SEQ:Whole:Theory
EVI:Literary:number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
EVI:Result:its result. The experiment is concerned with the following question.
SEQ:Years:Displacement
SEQ:Draw:Straight
EVI:Proceeding:state of motion. But before proceeding farther, it ought to be pointed
SEQ:Magnet:Acts
SEQ:Xxiii:Found
EVI:Must:appear to be called in question. In reality we must make a subtle
SEQ:Conclusion:These
SEQ:Spherical:Space
EVI:Times:times greater than for the Sun. R.W.L.—translator
SEQ:Absorbs:Amount
SEQ:People:Travelling
EVI:Equations:for this reason electrostatics is overthrown by the field-equations of
EVI:Project:destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
CON:Influenced
SEQ:Everything:Really
EVI:Atom:The frequency of an atom situated on the surface of a heavenly body
SEQ:System:Equations
EVI:Addition:expresses the theorem of the addition of velocities employed in
SEQ:Order:Understand
SEQ:Newton:Motion
EVI:Maximum:agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
CON:Dark
EVI:Train:train as measured from the embankment may be different from that
SEQ:Experiment:Involving
SEQ:Unprotected:Copyright
SEQ:Four:Ordinates
EVI:Sufficiently:thus: A body removed sufficiently far from other bodies continues in a
EVI:Points:“size-relations” (“distances” between neighbouring points) are defined.
CON:Properties
EVI:Propagation:that this velocity of propagation is dependent on the direction “in
REL:Require:Find
SEQ:Amount:Those
SEQ:Modified:Printed
SEQ:Maintained:Other
EVI:Meaning:once more analyse its meaning carefully.
SEQ:Hold:Exactly
EVI:Clocks:both clocks go at the same rate from the standpoint of the non-rotating
CON:Mail
SEQ:Velocity:Continued
REL:Contrast:Ours
SEQ:Contributions:Project
EVI:Reference:principle immaterial to what reference-body we refer the motion. As
EVI:Introduction:Since the introduction of the special principle of relativity has been
EVI:Manifested:forwards. The retarded motion is manifested in the mechanical behaviour
EVI:Deflection:earth. But as a consequence of the deflection of light from the star by
EVI:Galileian:in which there is no gravitational field relative to the Galileian
SEQ:Rods:Universe
EVI:Respect:is variable with respect to space and time.[17] The character of this
SEQ:Like:Rippled
REL:Magnitudes:Given
EVI:Pass:A ray of light requires a perfectly definite time _T_ to pass from one
CON:Friedman
EVI:Through:mentioned is flowing through the tube with a velocity _v_?
CON:Incidence
EVI:Every:equations must pass over into equations of the same form; for every
CON:Author
SEQ:Best:Plan
SEQ:Just:Where
SEQ:Other:Words
EVI:Terms:agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
EVI:Lofty:with more respect than love—the magnificent structure, on the lofty
SEQ:Itself:Improbable
SEQ:Geometrical:Propositions
EVI:Shuddering:The non-mathematician is seized by a mysterious shuddering when he
SEQ:Rods:Introduction
CON:Element
EVI:Lives:to the introduction of a more comprehensive theory, in which it lives
SEQ:Associated:Work
EVI:Copied:performed, viewed, copied or distributed:
SEQ:Hand:Observer
SEQ:Energy:Owing
EVI:Observation:coincide for observation with one eye, under suitable choice of our
SEQ:Magnetic:Field
SEQ:Same:Energy
EVI:First:_x, y, z_, of the first point. In virtue of the latter property we
SEQ:Photographs:Solar
EVI:Detail:here we shall have to deal in detail later.
REL:Theory:Relativity
SEQ:Continuum:Assigned
SEQ:Travel:Velocity
EVI:Space:three-dimensional “space” of (Euclidean) analytical geometry. If we
EVI:Permits:permits of our answering it with a moderate degree of certainty, and in
EVI:Relative:When we were describing the motion of a material point relative to a
EVI:Therefore:field equations of gravitation. Hubble’s discovery can, therefore, be
EVI:States:This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
SEQ:Ordinates:Relative
EVI:Educational:501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
EVI:Railway:with respect to the railway embankment? Is there a thinkable answer to
EVI:Forth:identical with _x, y, z, t_. It has already been set forth in detail
SEQ:Earlier:Definition
EVI:Carriage:an additional distance w relative to the carriage, and hence also
EVI:During:At all events, a definite decision will be reached during the next few
SEQ:Form:Slightest
SEQ:Instead:Real
CON:Them
CON:Permit
EVI:Assumption:discard this assumption, then the conflict between the law of the
CON:Status
EVI:Respect:is the required velocity of light with respect to the carriage, and we
EVI:Defective:with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
SEQ:Material:Particles
SEQ:Comply:Terms
EVI:Euclidean:space-time continuum cannot be regarded as a Euclidean one, but that
EVI:Measured:1 when measured in the _K′_ system are thus separated in our
SEQ:Evershed:Schwarzschild
EVI:Protected:editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
SEQ:Juncture:Theory
REL:Light:Transmitted
EVI:Providing:redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
EVI:Such:this question of such a nature that the law of transmission of light
EVI:Choice:is independent of the choice of the body of reference. We call the
SEQ:Allow:Definite
SEQ:Existence:Effect
SEQ:Energy:Body
SEQ:Difference:Should
SEQ:Reader:Think
SEQ:Respect:Accelerated
EVI:Incomparably:theory of relativity the method of interpretation is incomparably more
SEQ:Preference:Order
EVI:Great:hundredths of a millimetre only. Thus great accuracy was necessary in
SEQ:Surface:Specially
SEQ:Possible:Space
SEQ:Conclude:Points
SEQ:Mach:Recognised
EVI:Inertial:same thing, on the law of the equality of inertial and gravitational
SEQ:Remark:Theory
SEQ:Because:Leads
SEQ:Regarded:Analogous
EVI:System:that there was no such field for the co-ordinate system first chosen.
SEQ:Shall:Show
SEQ:Determined:Arrangement
EVI:Disproved:theory would have been disproved. Let us now examine what general
SEQ:Themselves:Perceptible
SEQ:Always:Sought
EVI:Rippled:plane: something like the rippled surface of a lake. Such a universe
CON:Require
REL:Points:Reference
SEQ:Space:Time
SEQ:Reader:Followed
EVI:Address:Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
CON:Contains
SEQ:Formulates:Answer
EVI:Negative:become reconciled to this negative result, for reasons now to be
SEQ:Them:Hitherto
SEQ:Corresponding:University
EVI:According:According to Newton’s law of motion, we have
SEQ:Remark:Fundamental
REL:Velocity:Rotation
EVI:Must:must be placed on a new basis. It can only be got rid of by means of a
EVI:First:sphere-beings the circumference of a circle first increases with the
SEQ:Mirror:Other
CON:Coincidence
EVI:Pipe:would be different from that emitted if the axis of the pipe were
EVI:Ratio:I admit that the ratio of the circumference _c_ of a circle to its
EVI:Ticks:ticks of this clock. The first and fourth equations of the Lorentz
EVI:Galileian:[19] Throughout this consideration we have to use the Galileian
EVI:Well:London” is a well-defined point, to which a name has been assigned, and
SEQ:System:Thus
EVI:Laid:number which tells us how often the rod has to be laid down is the
EVI:Experiment:XIII. Theorem of the Addition of Velocities. The Experiment of Fizeau
SEQ:Gutenberg:Ebooks
CON:Name
EVI:Have:Hitherto I have purposely refrained from speaking about the physical
EVI:Energy:neither takes up nor sends out energy. Writing the expression for the
SEQ:Distance:Equal
SEQ:Number:Other
SEQ:Vanilla:Ascii
SEQ:Subtracting:Equations
SEQ:Ordinates:Completely
SEQ:Meaningless:Choose
SEQ:Connection:Difficulty
EVI:Value:_x_ the value _ct_ in the first and fourth equations of the Lorentz
SEQ:Should:Hold
SEQ:Form:Opinion
CON:Independently
SEQ:Possibility:Finite
SEQ:Distance:Basis
EVI:Conception:of the expression “coincidence in space.” This conception is
EVI:Work:clothes. Minkowski’s work is doubtless difficult of access to anyone
EVI:Also:slab is no longer a Euclidean continuum, and we are also no longer in
EVI:Project:of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online
CON:Difficulty
EVI:Imaginary:an imaginary time coordinate); the Lorentz transformation corresponds
EVI:Conditions:the surface. These satisfy the same conditions as the _u_-curves, they
EVI:Position:transmitted to us from a fixed star, as compared with the position of
CON:Showed
SEQ:Then:Measured
EVI:Whatever:whatever kind of body he may happen to use for the experiment._
EVI:Often:This system of equations is often termed the “Galilei transformation.”
EVI:Rods:reference-body _K_. The behaviour of measuring-rods and clocks with
SEQ:Stars:Maximum
EVI:Ocean:island in the infinite ocean of space.[24]
EVI:Noted:_K_. It is obvious that the same effect would be noted by an observer
SEQ:Science:Emerged
EVI:Should:to any physical theory, than that it should of itself point out the way
SEQ:Crucial:Test
SEQ:Work:Replacement
SEQ:Time:Arguments
SEQ:Specification:Trafalgar
SEQ:Order:Perceive
EVI:Relativity:of relativity has grown out of electrodynamics and optics. In these
EVI:Moving:rest, and the more quickly it is moving, the shorter is the rod. For
EVI:Come:train as their reference-body must therefore come to the conclusion
EVI:Most:This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
EVI:Squares:at every position on the table. But our construction of squares must
SEQ:Slurs:Over
REL:Rest:Points
EVI:Things:resulted in physicists becoming convinced that there are no such things
SEQ:Without:General
SEQ:Possible:Logical
EVI:Make:circular disc. Thus on our circular disc, or, to make the case more
EVI:Passing:perpetually passing out into infinite space, never to return, and
EVI:Measuring:can be measured up by means of a measuring-rod. Similarly, this
EVI:Least:became evident that _in reality there is not the least incompatibilitiy
EVI:Then:motion.” If, for instance, our embankment were the system _K0_ then our
EVI:Given:general principle of relativity given in Section XVIII by an exact
SEQ:Space:Constrained
EVI:Existence:measures to make ourselves independent of the existence of marked
EVI:Position:amount indicated above, as compared with their apparent position in the
CON:Redistributing
SEQ:Part:Carriage
SEQ:Than:Association
EVI:Each:they approach each other, and finally they run together again at a
EVI:Field:order to find out the general law-of-field of gravitation we still
SEQ:Both:Half
SEQ:Course:Epoch
SEQ:Status:Internal
EVI:Vision:But between the clear vision of this goal and its actual realisation it
EVI:According:XXXII. The Structure of Space According to the General Theory of Relativity
EVI:Afore:That is, by the afore-mentioned choice of “coordinates,” (11_a_) [see
EVI:Propagation:The velocity of propagation ot a ray of light relative to the carriage
EVI:These:[5] A refinement and modification of these views does not become
SEQ:Amongst:These
CON:Unprotected
EVI:Even:be arbitrary, although it was always tacitly made even before the
EVI:Shows:In the second place our result shows that, according to the general
SEQ:Indebted:British
EVI:Since:here apply the consideration of the previous section, since the ray of
EVI:Find:travel through space, we should find everywhere an attenuated swarm of
EVI:Arrived:data does not allow of any definite decision being arrived at, as to
EVI:Goes:that the latter clock goes at a rate permanently slower than that of
CON:Natural
SEQ:Rods:Defined
CON:View
EVI:Physical:pair of events _A, C_ is also satisfied. This assumption is a physical
SEQ:Significance:Later
EVI:Mass:Expressed in an abstract manner we may say: If a mass _m_ is moving
EVI:Propagation:propagation of light _in vacuo_ and the principle of relativity
EVI:Rectilinear:motion continue permanently in uniform rectilinear motion. As
SEQ:Consequence:Guilty
SEQ:Because:Rigid
SEQ:System:Propagation
EVI:Applicable:you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
SEQ:Transformations:Lorentz
EVI:Body:(non-rotating) system _K_ as reference-body, since we may only assume
EVI:Except:LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
EVI:Sense:those possessing motion of a different kind). In this sense we speak of
EVI:Others:assumed only for these reference-bodies, but not for others (_e.g._
EVI:Enables:seen that the general theory of relativity enables us to derive
SEQ:Associate:More
EVI:Must:still we must grant it a considerable measure of “truth,” since it
EVI:Motion:whatever may be its state of motion.
SEQ:Suppose:Rods
CON:Theory
SEQ:Numbers:Then
SEQ:Lies:Nearest
EVI:Centre:the latter, or, more correctly, round the common centre of gravity of
EVI:Theory:the special theory of relativity. In this connection we proceed in
CON:Circumstances
EVI:Length:supply us with the same result as the first. Thus the length of the
EVI:General:interpretation of space- and time-data in the case of the general
EVI:Known:known that a gravitational field influences the movement of bodies in
SEQ:Have:Description
EVI:More:awakened by thoughts of the occult. And yet there is no more
EVI:Position:of light varies with position. Now we might think that as a consequence
CON:Electrons
SEQ:Merely:Process
EVI:Imagine:manner. We imagine two clocks of identical construction; the man at the
EVI:Radial:(aberration), and to the influence of the radial components of the
REL:Effect:Gravitation
SEQ:Does:Disturb
CON:Uniform
SEQ:Shun:Vague
REL:Description:Position
SEQ:Consideration:Appear
SEQ:Newton:Insert
SEQ:More:More
EVI:Case:case simply by transformation of the coordinates. This behaviour is
EVI:Then:motion as our body of reference. We should then be justified (because
EVI:Order:unit of mass against the centrifugal force in order to transport it
EVI:Moving:behaviour of measuring-rods and clocks and also of freely-moving
EVI:Must:experiment, we recognise that there must also be cases in which the
EVI:Galactic:the galactic line-shift discovered by Hubble as an expansion (which can
SEQ:Least:Electrostatics
SEQ:Temperature:Than
EVI:Time:theory of relativity, is in general not possible in space-time
SEQ:Consideration:Answer
SEQ:Merchantability:Fitness
EVI:Results:disagreement between these two fundamental results of experience? This
SEQ:Propagated:Empty
EVI:Magnitudes:ordinary and the accented magnitudes is given by the Lorentz
EVI:Clocks:measuring-rods, clocks and material points under the influence of the
SEQ:Have:Never
EVI:Otherwise:strings to the floor, otherwise the slightest impact against the floor
SEQ:Kind:Hope
EVI:Transmission:velocity of transmission relative to the reference-body _K′_ is also
SEQ:Bodies:Others
EVI:Equal:dimensional space) of equal length in all directions. They will call
SEQ:Paragraphs:Through
EVI:People:from people in all walks of life.
EVI:Material:When we were describing the motion of a material point relative to a
EVI:Good:mechanical laws of Galilei-Newton hold good exactly as they do with
EVI:Minimum:this were not the case, the minimum of emission would not be observed
EVI:Values:for still further increasing values of _r_, the area gradually
SEQ:Completed:Rigid
EVI:Axis:outside the _x_-axis, is obtained by retaining equations (8) and
EVI:Principle:fundamental idea of the general principle of relativity: “_All Gaussian
SEQ:Carriage:Direction
EVI:Reference:respect to the body of reference[7] (here the railway embankment). We
REL:Basis:Theory
EVI:Four:hears of “four-dimensional” things, by a feeling not unlike that
REL:Wish:Remain
SEQ:Problem:Constants
EVI:Ourselves:ourselves compelled to admit, all remaining propositions are shown to
SEQ:Start:Consideration
EVI:Judged:Now, as judged from the disc, the latter is in a gravitational field of
SEQ:Called:Axioms
EVI:Nature:this question of such a nature that the law of transmission of light
CON:Recognise
EVI:Taken:[11] _E_0 is the energy taken up, as judged from a co-ordinate system
EVI:Respect:not essential that the velocity of translation of _K′_ with respect to
EVI:Important:important idea contributed by Minkowski. Without it the general theory
SEQ:Foundation:Manager
EVI:Fittingly:might fittingly be called a quasi-Euclidean universe. As regards its
EVI:Other:whilst the other does not, then I shall remain astonished and
EVI:General:formulate the general laws of nature as they are obtained from
EVI:Reference:reference-body (mollusc) used in the description may be chosen.
SEQ:System:Then
SEQ:Attained:Application
SEQ:Whether:Axes
EVI:Physical:in both cases. This can also be expressed as follows: For the physical
SEQ:Year:However
EVI:Accord:their own accord, then this is an especial favour of the marble slab
SEQ:Sense:Above
SEQ:Negatively:Must
SEQ:Coordinates:Continuum
EVI:Paragraphs:paragraphs.
EVI:Freely:freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
EVI:Relativity:of relativity would be laid in the dust. But in reality this is not the
SEQ:Order:Arrive
REL:Extends:Infinity
SEQ:Gutenberg:Concept
CON:Davidson
CON:Modified
EVI:Observed:through the air in such a manner that its motion, as observed from the
EVI:According:the inertial mass of a body is not a constant but varies according to
SEQ:Before:Seen
EVI:Section:following section we shall show to what extent this is actually the
SEQ:Rays:Light
SEQ:Small:Parts
EVI:Material:nature. Such a finite material universe would be destined to become
EVI:Earth:room of a home on our earth. If he releases a body which he previously
EVI:Being:contraction being just sufficient to compensate for the difference in
SEQ:Exists:Because
EVI:Space:dials. It is just the same in the case of space-measurements by means
EVI:Planets:disturbing influences exerted on Mercury by the remaining planets, it
EVI:Distance:distance _ds_ is associated with the adjacent points _P_ and _P′_, this
SEQ:Wish:Laid
EVI:Magnificent:with more respect than love—the magnificent structure, on the lofty
REL:Ends:These
EVI:Fundamental:As is well known, the fundamental law of the mechanics of
SEQ:Forwards:Result
EVI:Complying:The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
SEQ:Saying:Truth
EVI:Regards:bodies which are at rest relative to the disc, he regards as the effect
SEQ:Require:Take
EVI:Laws:501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
EVI:Spectral:stars as compared with the spectral lines of the same element produced
SEQ:Energies:Used
REL:Uniformity:Motion
SEQ:Calculations:Show
SEQ:Relative:Distances
EVI:License:of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online
EVI:Drift:relative to _K′_. Strictly speaking, such an æther-drift ought also to
CON:Differs
SEQ:Understand:Validity
SEQ:Only:Thankfully
EVI:Rate:at a uniform rate. As long as it is moving uniformly, the occupant of
EVI:Formulation:formulation of natural laws. Our course was more on the following
SEQ:Uncertainty:Empirical
EVI:World:equal to the total area of the whole “world-sphere.”
EVI:Variations:variations from the laws of classical mechanics are too small to make
EVI:Theory:the theory of relativity. In the equation
EVI:Theory:reference to _K_ is known from the special theory of relativity,
SEQ:Much:Favour
SEQ:Space:Allow
EVI:Entirely:by the methods of geometry, but that it is in itself entirely without
EVI:Agree:(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
SEQ:Galilei:Newton
SEQ:Ideas:Either
EVI:Behaviour:The next step is to investigate the space-time behaviour of the
EVI:Whole:this “infinitely dense” system covers the whole surface of the table.
EVI:Travel:organpipe placed with its axis parallel to the direction of travel
REL:Astronomers:Physicists
EVI:Dutch:observations of double stars, the Dutch astronomer De Sitter was also
CON:Important
EVI:West:Principe (West Africa)—and sent several of Britain’s most celebrated
EVI:Clearly:for this preference?_” In order to show clearly what I mean by this
EVI:Translation:it is of constant velocity and direction, “translation” because
CON:Specially
EVI:Mathematical:mathematical treatment of continua in general, in which
EVI:Other:arranged on a rigid body that the reflecting surfaces face each other.
EVI:Continuously:original velocity in the backwards direction is continuously reduced.”
EVI:Then:law of the propagation of light _in vacuo_ would then have to be
EVI:Gravitational:domains to _non-Galileian_ reference-bodies also. A gravitational field
EVI:General:fundamental idea of the general principle of relativity: “_All Gaussian
EVI:Star:[16] By means of the star photographs of two expeditions equipped by a
EVI:Theory:XV. General Results of the Theory
REL:When:Motion
SEQ:Neighbouring:Events
SEQ:Also:Standpoint
SEQ:Bodies:Geometry
EVI:Accept:virtue of these ideas, we are inclined to accept as “true.” Then, on
CON:Formulation
SEQ:Kind:Must
CON:Error
EVI:Agreement:damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
CON:Flow
EVI:Value:The same value _v_ can be obtained from equations (5), if we calculate
CON:Federal
EVI:Practice:themselves evident in practice. We shall not consider the motion of
CON:Conscientious
SEQ:Simple:Constancy
SEQ:Velocity:Relative
EVI:Fundamental:exhibits a most remarkable property, which is of fundamental importance
EVI:Themselves:of deductions from the special theory of relativity, and in themselves
SEQ:Modification:Curvature
EVI:Classical:classical mechanics; the Lorentz transformation is the deciding factor
EVI:Only:by means of classical mechanics only on the assumption of hypotheses
EVI:Other:relativity will be untenable. On the other hand, if the cause of the
SEQ:Hardly:Simpler
EVI:Exceedingly:results are obtained in an exceedingly simple manner, and the effects
EVI:Seen:seen that the general theory of relativity enables us to derive
SEQ:Transformation:Changing
SEQ:Obtained:Rotary
EVI:Start:To start with, he places one of two identically constructed clocks at
EVI:Description:Every description of the scene of an event or of the position of an
SEQ:Hold:Foundation
EVI:Train:have to do with places and times relative both to the train and to the
EVI:Potential:the potential of the gravitational field in which it is situated._
EVI:Considerations:So far, these considerations hold for a continuum of two dimensions.
SEQ:Pages:Epitomised
EVI:Space:space coordinates. It is for this reason that we have been in the habit
EVI:Different:different behaviour of bodies considered with respect to the reference
EVI:Relativity:reference to _K_ is known from the special theory of relativity,
EVI:Just:But we can carry out this consideration just as well on the basis of
SEQ:Event:Four
EVI:Dimishes:intensity of the action on a body dimishes according to a quite
EVI:Physicist:physicist until he has the possibility of discovering whether or not it
EVI:Certainly:spectrum are certainly revealed by statistical investigations of the
EVI:Living:order to perceive that they are not living in a Euclidean universe.
SEQ:Reduced:Number
SEQ:Whether:Both
EVI:Ebook:copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
EVI:Than:form, which renders it yet more clearly intelligible than it is when in
SEQ:Thus:Latter
EVI:Pole:(_c_) We speak of the height of the cloud even when the pole which
EVI:Gradually:gradually but systematically impoverished.
EVI:Ordinate:co-ordinate systems, one (_K_) corresponding to a particular state of
SEQ:Appendixes:Relations
EVI:Force:doing this. The force acting on himself, and in fact on all other
SEQ:Against:Classical
REL:Assigned:Adjacent
SEQ:Only:About
EVI:Position:relativity puts us in a position to derive properties of the
SEQ:Nature:Numerical
SEQ:Hypotheses:Then
CON:Names
EVI:Constrained:should be constrained to believe that natural laws are capable of being
SEQ:Rods:Doing
SEQ:Refers:Trafalgar
CON:Awakened
EVI:Same:direction is the same as that of the ray of light, but its velocity of
CON:Associated
CON:Note
SEQ:Conviction:Truth
EVI:Capable:is associated with every event which is essentially capable of
EVI:Coincide:coincide for observation with one eye, under suitable choice of our
EVI:Considered:the velocity of transmission of light _in vacuo_ has to be considered
SEQ:Juncture:Question
SEQ:Embankment:Velocity
EVI:Equation:light takes place according to this equation. We thus see that the
EVI:Disc:If, then, the observer first measures the circumference of the disc
EVI:Without:important idea contributed by Minkowski. Without it the general theory
SEQ:Since:Gravitational
EVI:Often:Since it has often been contended by opponents of the theory of
EVI:Independent:considerably reduced the number of independent hypotheses forming the
SEQ:Case:Fields
EVI:Fourth:By means of the first and fourth equations of the Galilei
EVI:Reference:rotating reference-body, go at rates which are dependent on the
SEQ:Time:Unless
SEQ:Like:Manner
EVI:Without:invalidate it, but without success. But E. Mach recognised it most
SEQ:Foundation:Pglaf
REL:Natural:Simple
EVI:Terms:is small compared with unity, the third of these terms is always small
SEQ:Definition:Coordinates
EVI:Library:Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
EVI:Fundamental:condition, then at least one of the two fundamental assumptions of the
EVI:Thus:We thus obtain the following result: Every description of events in
EVI:Three:space with respect to _K_ by the three perpendiculars _x, y, z_ on the
REL:Hold:Reality
EVI:Curves:Under these conditions, the _u_-curves and _v_-curves are straight
SEQ:Obtained:Hold
CON:Close
SEQ:Different:Rates
EVI:Shown:of its independence. This is shown by the fourth equation of the
CON:Commissioned
CON:Generally
EVI:Same:reference to _K′_ must be exactly the same as the length, as judged
EVI:Given:ordinary and the accented magnitudes is given by the Lorentz
EVI:World:other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
SEQ:Velocity:Flow
EVI:Deeply:practically rigid body is something which is lodged deeply in our habit
EVI:During:confirmed during the solar eclipse of 29th May, 1919. (Cf. Appendix
EVI:Body:specify how the body alters its position _with time; i.e._ for every
SEQ:Rods:Only
CON:Impact
EVI:Contact:Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
CON:Licensed
EVI:Covers:this “infinitely dense” system covers the whole surface of the table.
EVI:Matter:matter in it.
SEQ:Thus:Such
EVI:Inertial:THE EQUALITY OF INERTIAL AND GRAVITATIONAL MASS AS AN ARGUMENT FOR THE
SEQ:Behaviour:Clocks
EVI:Field:him on the supposition of a gravitational field, and he would not be
EVI:Moreover:Moreover, according to the special principle of relativity, this
CON:Example
EVI:Semi:expression _a_ represents the major semi-axis of the ellipse, _e_ its
EVI:Solicit:While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
SEQ:Possibility:Presents
REL:Field:Attraction
EVI:Length:the same velocity as along the length _B_ → _M_. But an examination of
EVI:Stars:the fixed stars resulting from the motion of the earth round the sun
EVI:Disc:valid from the standpoint of an observer who is rotating with the disc.
SEQ:Generalisation:Cartesian
EVI:Marked:compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
SEQ:These:Influences
CON:Window
EVI:Space:knowledge about the structure of space in the large (“cosmological
CON:Writing
SEQ:Hence:Drift
SEQ:Strictly:Speaking
EVI:Different:which holds most accurately, can be expressed in a different form in
EVI:Suggested:In order to escape this dilemma, Seeliger suggested a modification of
SEQ:Hold:Every
CON:Rest
CON:Holding
EVI:Velocity:velocity of light always takes the place of instantaneous action at a
SEQ:Curvature:Corresponds
SEQ:Including:Obsolete
SEQ:Experience:Riemann
EVI:Mode:The four-dimensional mode of consideration of the “world” is natural on
SEQ:Emits:Steam
SEQ:Much:Alike
EVI:Duration:respect to the carriage must not be considered equal to the duration of
SEQ:Relation:Ideas
SEQ:Time:Traverse
EVI:Correctly:the latter, or, more correctly, round the common centre of gravity of
EVI:Suppose:Suppose we draw lines or stretch strings in all directions from a
SEQ:Place:Following
EVI:Nevertheless:nevertheless regard the chest as being at rest. We have thus good
SEQ:Coincides:Point
EVI:Ordinates:A four-dimensional continuum described by the “co-ordinates” _x_1,
SEQ:Therefore:Come
EVI:Astronomer:astronomer Seeliger. If we ponder over the question as to how the
EVI:Relativity:The great power possessed by the general principle of relativity lies
SEQ:Contained:Preceding
EVI:Such:that they are set in such a manner that the positions of their pointers
EVI:Embankment:the mid-point _M_ of the length _A_ → _B_ of the embankment. But the
CON:Hook
CON:Contents
SEQ:Scrupulously:Precept
SEQ:Here:Investigate
SEQ:Come:Regard
SEQ:Pair:Events
SEQ:Before:Distribute
EVI:Theories:induction. Theories are evolved and are expressed in short compass as
SEQ:Disc:Make
SEQ:Donors:Such
SEQ:Goes:Rate
EVI:Terms:License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
EVI:Double:observations of double stars, the Dutch astronomer De Sitter was also
SEQ:Contracted:Length
REL:Grounds:Experience
SEQ:Gutenberg:Pages
EVI:Physicists:resulted in physicists becoming convinced that there are no such things
SEQ:Your:Country
EVI:Does:quite inadequate. What does it mean to assign to an event the
SEQ:Quickly:Other
EVI:Place:motion here taking place in the following two forms, both of which are
EVI:General:On the basis of the general theory of relativity, it is found that the
EVI:Work:comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
EVI:Assume:reference-body _K′_ moving uniformly with respect to _K_, if we assume
REL:Critical:Reaching
EVI:What:following section we shall show to what extent this is actually the
CON:Suppose
EVI:Mechanics:We have already stated several times that classical mechanics starts
SEQ:Interval:Between
SEQ:Dimensional:Ordinate
EVI:Such:space involves the use of a rigid body to which such events have to be
EVI:Distribution:with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
CON:Measurable
EVI:Fundamental:However, we obtain a new result of fundamental importance when we carry
CON:Incomplete
SEQ:Build:System
CON:Misconception
EVI:Suspended:tension in the rope, the man in the chest will say: “The suspended body
EVI:Same:field of giving all bodies the same acceleration, or, what comes to the
EVI:General:general postulate of relativity (Section XXIII).
SEQ:Purpose:Numbering
SEQ:Relative:Given
CON:Attenuated
EVI:Constant:Euclidean geometry of the plane, equal to a constant value π, which is
SEQ:Situated:Free
EVI:Relativity:relativity that the special theory of relativity is overthrown by the
EVI:Unexplained:was found (Leverrier: 1859; and Newcomb: 1895) that an unexplained
SEQ:Continued:Across
EVI:Classical:result of observation in astronomy, against which classical mechanics
EVI:Reference:continuum with reference to the measuring-rods, but only in this case,
EVI:Fundamental:that this fundamental law can only be valid for bodies of reference _K_
SEQ:Geometry:Then
EVI:Require:we require is reached by the completed rigid body.
SEQ:Present:Revert
SEQ:Here:Gaussian
EVI:According:Moreover, according to this equation the time difference Δ_t′_ of two
SEQ:Difficult:Locate
EVI:Theory:theory thus:
EVI:Admits:This result admits of an experimental test by means of the photographic
EVI:Everyone:certainly regard everyone with disdain who should pronounce even the
EVI:Reference:formulation. The form there used, “All bodies of reference _K, K′_,
EVI:Simple:relativity. But a simple and apparently quite reliable consideration
SEQ:System:Galileian
SEQ:Great:Accuracy
EVI:Theory:propositions, then at a later stage (in the general theory of
EVI:Must:These _u_-curves must not intersect each other, and through each point
SEQ:Propositions:Geometry
EVI:Also:Then every event which takes place along the line also takes place at a
EVI:Perhaps:with the noble building of Euclid’s geometry, and you remember—perhaps
EVI:Same:radius _r_ depends on _r_, but for a given value of _r_ it is the same
EVI:Interest:interest is available in the province of biology, in the Darwinian
SEQ:Relation:Between
SEQ:Outwards:Centre
EVI:Fees:fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
SEQ:Square:Already
EVI:Centre:somewhat greater distance from the centre of the sun than corresponds
SEQ:Believed:Child
EVI:Portion:We imagine a large portion of empty space, so far removed from stars
EVI:Thenceforward:it thenceforward gradually decreases to zero for still further
REL:Mentioned:Connection
SEQ:Executing:Jumps
EVI:Galileian:this connection a Galileian reference-body serves as body of reference,
EVI:Deals:goes through two points. We can only say that Euclidean geometry deals
CON:Expressions
EVI:General:empirical laws, from which the general laws can be ascertained by
EVI:Between:such away, that the angle described by the radius sun-planet between
SEQ:Relative:Tube
SEQ:Constitute:Processes
SEQ:Mechanics:Affords
EVI:Relative:be given relative to the train in exactly the same way as with respect
SEQ:Error:Disregard
EVI:Effort:effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
SEQ:Motion:Consequence
SEQ:Expression:Universal
SEQ:Including:Paying
EVI:Does:electromagnetic structure of matter. This circumstance, however, does
EVI:Theory:XIV. The Heuristic Value of the Theory of Relativity
SEQ:Along:Carriage
SEQ:Paying:Royalties
EVI:Previous:The basal principle, which was the pivot of all our previous
SEQ:Classical:Mechanics
EVI:Event:Then every event which takes place along the line also takes place at a
SEQ:These:Times
REL:Require:Extend
CON:Save
EVI:Specify:specify how the body alters its position _with time; i.e._ for every
EVI:Already:with experience (Riemann, Helmholtz). These questions have already been
REL:Virtue:These
EVI:Considerations:considerations of the preceding section.
EVI:Optics:of relativity has grown out of electrodynamics and optics. In these
EVI:Sirius:on the dense companion of Sirius, for which the effect is about thirty
EVI:Relativity:special theory of relativity hold relative to _K_. Let us suppose the
EVI:Possible:reference-body) the laws of nature were to be as simple as possible.
EVI:Matter:density of matter, although very variable in detail, is nevertheless on
EVI:Small:numbers (Gaussian coordinates) which differ by an indefinitely small
EVI:Slab:the variably heated marble slab, and if we had no other means of
SEQ:Need:State
EVI:Value:immediate vicinity (in space) of the event. In this manner a time-value
SEQ:Purposely:Treated
EVI:Assigned:amount are assigned to adjacent points. The Gaussian coordinate system
EVI:Yield:a disc which is at rest with respect to _K_, this operation would yield
SEQ:Statement:Hold
SEQ:Shall:Consider
EVI:Systems:For the relative orientation of the co-ordinate systems indicated in
EVI:Slab:slab of the table and local variation of temperature. The temperature
SEQ:Example:Point
EVI:Case:here we have the general case, corresponding to the marble slab with
SEQ:Assign:Event
EVI:Stellar:infinite region of emptiness. The stellar universe ought to be a finite
EVI:Special:gravitational fields, but only for those of quite special form. It is,
SEQ:Rest:Gravitational
EVI:Seconds:Mercury it must amount to 43 seconds of arc per century, a result which
EVI:Texts:derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
SEQ:Relativity:Gaussian
SEQ:Constructions:Made
EVI:Unit:from K, the length of a unit measuring-rod which is at rest with
SEQ:Form:Series
EVI:Comply:must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
EVI:System:system “absolutely at rest,” and all other Galileian systems _K_ “in
EVI:Give:It is clear that this definition can be used to give an exact meaning
EVI:Element:will be somewhat less than the frequency of an atom of the same element
EVI:Have:originally considered. That we have not been accustomed to regard the
EVI:Little:delicacy of detail little short of wonderful. The principle of
SEQ:Think:Such
PROP:Number:value:64
EVI:Each:continually interfere with each other, owing to the impenetrability of
SEQ:Accept:True
EVI:Surface:at the surface of the earth, the amount of this displacement being
SEQ:Equal:Duration
REL:Each:Them
CON:Become
EVI:Geometry:goes through two points. We can only say that Euclidean geometry deals
EVI:Clock:the clock at the centre of the circular disc, _i.e._ as observed from
CON:Common
SEQ:Here:Reality
SEQ:Point:Diverge
EVI:Unfamiliar:fashion, so that readers unfamiliar with physics may not feel like the
SEQ:Every:Ordinate
EVI:Prepare:legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
REL:Group:Works
EVI:Gravitational:gravitational potential, then the study of this displacement will
CON:Employ
EVI:Result:equivalent. As a result of this discussion, a most interesting question
SEQ:Bound:Terms
EVI:Light:light. There is only _one_ demand to be made of the definition of
EVI:Elliptical:“elliptical space.” It can be regarded as a curved space in which the
SEQ:Written:Revised
CON:Cast
SEQ:What:Values
CON:Simultaneously
SEQ:Adjustments:Required
CON:Spectrum
EVI:Millionths:amounts to about two millionths of the wave-length. A trustworthy
EVI:Deviations:We must draw attention here to one of these deviations. According to
EVI:Show:of the construction of squares in the previous section do not show
EVI:Imagine:(_a_) We imagine the rigid body, to which the place specification is
EVI:Preserve:agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
EVI:Gutenberg:does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
EVI:Present:possible. This incomplete suggestion will suffice for the present
SEQ:Perceives:Lightning
EVI:System:In practice, the rigid surfaces which constitute the system of
EVI:Compasses:and compasses.
EVI:Field:the gravitational field in space must be a perfectly definite one, in
EVI:Receipt:receipt of the work.
SEQ:Electrodynamics:Astoundingly
EVI:Thus:space-time by a single system of values _x_1, _x_2, _x_3, _x_4. Thus
CON:Direct
SEQ:Specification:Point
EVI:Negative:(directed towards the negative _x_-axis) of a point of _K_ with respect
EVI:Hand:relativity, on the other hand, by application of _arbitrary
EVI:Publication:Since the publication of the first edition of this little book, our
SEQ:During:Process
EVI:General:Part II: The General Theory of Relativity
CON:Derivable
EVI:Characteristic:where the “inertial mass” is a characteristic constant of the
SEQ:Electrodynamics:Built
EVI:Trademark:by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
SEQ:Notion:Seems
EVI:Position:We are now in a position to formulate more exactly the idea of
SEQ:Value:Determined
EVI:Systems:Fig. 2, the _x_-axes of both systems permanently coincide. In the
EVI:Train:embankment and relative to the train? This question leads to a quite
SEQ:Attracted:Attention
CON:Travels
EVI:Kind:this, we feel compelled at the present juncture to grant a kind of
EVI:Being:points _A_ and _B_ of the embankment which are just being passed by the
CON:Little
SEQ:Convince:Himself
SEQ:Scene:Event
EVI:Independent:independent of the condition of motion of the body of reference.
EVI:Diameter:with his measuring-rod and then the diameter of the disc, on dividing
EVI:Coincides:end (the beginning) coincides with the point _x′_ = 0 whilst the other
SEQ:Directly:Discussion
SEQ:System:Really
SEQ:Material:Universe
EVI:World:and a time co-ordinate, the time value _t_. The “world” is in this
EVI:Effect:detecting the effect of temperature than the geometrical behaviour of
EVI:Effect:_K_. It is obvious that the same effect would be noted by an observer
EVI:Reference:The Einstein Reference Archive is online at:
EVI:Seen:traversed the whole spherical space. It is easily seen that the
EVI:Disclaimers:1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
EVI:About:statements about their encounters. In our mathematical treatment, such
CON:Pardonable
SEQ:Perpendicular:Direction
SEQ:Reference:Known
EVI:Establish:classical mechanics was able to establish successfully the conservation
EVI:Instead:section. If instead of “body of reference” we insert “system of
EVI:Bodies:bodies can even be regarded as a measure of its energy. The law of the
EVI:Projected:is projected through a gravitational field. As a result of this theory,
EVI:Fifteenth:fifteenth re-printing of this book; and as a result is still under
EVI:Gutenberg:prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
SEQ:Character:Special
SEQ:System:Length
EVI:Ensuring:goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
EVI:Round:Now in virtue of its motion in an orbit round the sun, our earth is
CON:Exception
EVI:Galileian:uniform motion. At all events it is clear that the Galileian law does
EVI:Rigid:two points on a rigid body by means of measurements. For this purpose
EVI:Part:of Part II.
EVI:Older:basis the tacit assumptions of the older mechanics as to the absolute
SEQ:Observer:Inside
EVI:Gutenberg:and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact
EVI:Must:respect to _K_ are given? The relations must be so chosen that the law
EVI:Three:analogous to those holding in our three-dimensional measurements.
EVI:Also:_x_2, _x_3, _x_4, was called “world” by Minkowski, who also termed a
EVI:Following:view, then the following formula holds:
SEQ:Inevitable:Should
EVI:Curvature:other half by the geometrical modification (“curvature”) of space
EVI:Because:a finite or in an infinite universe, because the “piece of universe” to
EVI:Removed:all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
EVI:Well:As is well known, the fundamental law of the mechanics of
EVI:Impossible:relativity became ripe for discussion, and it did not appear impossible
EVI:Centrifugal:If we represent the difference of potential of the centrifugal force
EVI:Collection:works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
EVI:Shall:however, we shall assume its correctness.
SEQ:Motion:Point
EVI:Granted:to take for granted that the propagation of light always takes place
EVI:Project:1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
EVI:Classical:THE THEOREM OF THE ADDITION OF VELOCITIES EMPLOYED IN CLASSICAL
SEQ:Instance:Cloud
SEQ:Position:Relative
EVI:Bluish:this bluish something will cause the emission of the steam, or at least
SEQ:Universe:Regards
EVI:Perihelion:(_a_) Motion of the Perihelion of Mercury
CON:Postulate
EVI:Result:an astronomical day, a result which is opposed to the statement of the
SEQ:System:Thought
SEQ:Towards:Right
SEQ:Position:Continuum
SEQ:What:Time
SEQ:Cartesian:Coordinates
SEQ:Endeavour:Present
SEQ:More:Recent
EVI:Grant:still we must grant it a considerable measure of “truth,” since it
SEQ:Possible:Galileian
EVI:Final:Let me add a final remark of a fundamental nature. The success of the
SEQ:Removed:Course
SEQ:Transformation:Substituting
SEQ:Other:Agreement
SEQ:Approach:Each
EVI:Principle:principle of relativity, and the question arises: How have we to modify
EVI:Produce:than _c_, however great may be the energies used to produce the
EVI:Gravitational:curvature of its path when passing through a gravitational field, this
CON:Occurred
CON:Mission
EVI:Knowledge:by our actual knowledge, played an important part in this process of
SEQ:Time:Being
SEQ:Comparatively:Simple
EVI:Ratio:our flat beings would find for this ratio the value
CON:Finite
SEQ:Equivalent:Description
SEQ:Royal:Society
SEQ:Anxiety:Unfounded
SEQ:Velocity:Then
SEQ:Result:Light
SEQ:Somewhat:Disdainful
EVI:Less:Mean displacements of lines towards the less refrangible end of the
EVI:Free:measuring-rod. All the free end-points of these lengths lie on a
EVI:Raised:to a second objection which must be raised against the apparently
CON:Newcomb
CON:Portrayed
EVI:Required:required, then both of these points are moving with the velocity v
EVI:Instance:motion.” If, for instance, our embankment were the system _K0_ then our
EVI:Form:acknowledge, we cannot form the slightest conception, and we replace it
CON:Comparison
EVI:Influence:influence of the gravitational field on measuring-rods, clocks and
EVI:Under:the gravitational field under consideration is of a special kind. In
EVI:Gravitational:same for a given gravitational field, then the ratio of the
EVI:Addresses:methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
EVI:Necessarily:necessarily be _nil_. Thus such a universe could not be inhabited by
EVI:Formulation:formulation. The form there used, “All bodies of reference _K, K′_,
SEQ:Recent:Years
SEQ:Number:Larger
SEQ:Displaying:Performing
EVI:Stone:stone and produces its motion of fall. As we know from experience, the
EVI:Also:behaviour of measuring-rods and clocks and also of freely-moving
REL:Further:Regard
SEQ:Neither:Reached
EVI:Embankment:with respect to time. Under the influence of this field, the embankment
CON:Array
EVI:Field:gravitational field, at least if we attribute the length 1 to the rod
EVI:Time:two points _A′_ and _B′_ at a particular time t—judged from the
CON:Matters
EVI:States:which possess certain unique states of motion, and which are in uniform
SEQ:Theory:Expanding
SEQ:Immediate:Access
EVI:Arbitrary:somewhat arbitrary one. We shall only mention that with its aid
EVI:Marble:their own accord, then this is an especial favour of the marble slab
EVI:Gauss:continuum in an arbitrary manner to Gauss co-ordinates. We assign to
SEQ:Laws:Nature
EVI:Above:However, the Gauss treatment for _ds_2 which we have given above is not
REL:Direction:Travel
EVI:Seen:distant would be seen in the direction _D_1, as observed front the
EVI:Theory:Maxwell-Lorentz theory of electromagnetic phenomena. Thus all facts of
SEQ:Again:Before
SEQ:Validity:Euclidean
EVI:Eclipse:during the eclipse and the comparison photographs amounted to a few
SEQ:Sense:Founded
EVI:Formulate:We are now in a position to formulate more exactly the idea of
SEQ:Three:Space
SEQ:Laws:Themselves
EVI:Have:inherent to the subject. On the other hand, I have purposely treated
SEQ:Necessary:Have
EVI:Move:measuring-rods, are free to move in a _plane_. For them nothing exists
EVI:Amount:at the surface of the earth, the amount of this displacement being
REL:Discussed:Section
EVI:Description:reality, the description of the time-space continuum by means of Gauss
EVI:Point:point with reference to the system _K_ (of the man with reference to
SEQ:Permanently:Slower
REL:Inexperienced:Mathematics
SEQ:Infinite:Character
EVI:Time:words: Can we conceive of a relation between place and time of the
SEQ:Cloud:Length
EVI:Lake:Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
SEQ:Idea:Straight
SEQ:Hand:Side
EVI:Values:space-time by a single system of values _x_1, _x_2, _x_3, _x_4. Thus
EVI:Gravitational:is projected through a gravitational field. As a result of this theory,
EVI:Lorentz:have σ = 1. It is easily seen that the Lorentz transformation really
SEQ:Instance:Know
EVI:Space:Moreover, at this stage the definition of the space co-ordinates also
SEQ:Large:Cosmological
EVI:Distribution:distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.
EVI:Cosmological:XXX. Cosmological Difficulties of Newton’s Theory
EVI:Instance:We have another instance of far-reaching agreement between the
SEQ:Situation:Depicted
EVI:Same:same laws, even in the case where the prevailing gravitational field is
EVI:Then:same for a given gravitational field, then the ratio of the
SEQ:First:World
SEQ:Manner:Course
EVI:Rope:tension in the rope, the man in the chest will say: “The suspended body
CON:Correspondingly
EVI:Velocity:Light travels in a motionless liquid with a particular velocity _w_.
SEQ:Experience:Guided
EVI:Against:result of observation in astronomy, against which classical mechanics
SEQ:Gravitational:Mass
EVI:Description:in mechanics, which can be used in mechanical description. The visible
CON:Sentence
CON:Representation
SEQ:Simply:Mathematical
EVI:Along:transmitted along the negative _x_-axis, we obtain the condition
SEQ:Cases:Have
SEQ:General:Scientific
EVI:System:If _K_ is a Galileian co-ordinate system. then every other co-ordinate
EVI:Them:the distance between them. If we increase the accuracy of the
SEQ:First:Under
SEQ:Size:Distance
EVI:Theory:According also to the general theory of relativity, which differs of
SEQ:Rods:Ought
EVI:Fundamentally:demand any fundamentally new method.
CON:Changed
EVI:Around:chest would not be able to interpret the behaviour of the bodies around
SEQ:Gravitation:Basis
EVI:About:Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
EVI:Gravitational:gravitational to the inertial mass must likewise be the same for all
EVI:Special:slovenliness of treatment, which, as we know from the special theory of
SEQ:Property:Infringement
SEQ:Available:Represent
CON:Current
CON:Contributions
EVI:Light:Hence the observer will see the beam of light emitted from _B_ earlier
EVI:Simultaneity:incompatible with the most natural definition of simultaneity; if we
EVI:Clearly:which this difference should have been clearly detectable. But the
EVI:Visit:donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.
EVI:Space:transformation, we replace the space-time variables _x, y, z, t_, of a
EVI:Favour:very much in favour of the validity of the principle of relativity.
SEQ:Expend:Considerable
EVI:Other:motions only in the case of electrons and ions; for other motions the
EVI:Expenses:electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
SEQ:Rather:Incomplete
CON:Geometrical
CON:Address
SEQ:Description:Time
REL:Attempt:Realise
EVI:Line:distance _w_ relative to the railway line in a time which is equal to
SEQ:Simple:Relation
REL:Electronically:Lieu
SEQ:Eclipse:Appendix
EVI:Relation:relation to the train, when we know the place and time of the event
EVI:Earth:which is rigidly attached to the earth, then, relative to this system,
REL:Terms:Linear
SEQ:Mechanics:Cannot
EVI:Given:Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may
EVI:Translatory:executing a uniform translatory motion with respect to _K_. In
SEQ:Considerably:Longer
EVI:Notice:geometry for rigid bodies.[20] The reader will notice that the
EVI:Then:Euclidean three-dimensional space, then there exists for this surface
CON:Negligibly
EVI:Compared:have been made, their lengths being small compared with the dimensions
SEQ:Only:Touch
REL:Notable:These
CON:Conceivable
EVI:Relying:Relying on his knowledge of the gravitational field (as it was
EVI:Time:slightly different time _T′_ is required for this process, if the body,
SEQ:Part:Slab
SEQ:Reason:Already
EVI:Then:and similarly for the accented system _K′_, then the condition which is
EVI:Light:Light travels in a motionless liquid with a particular velocity _w_.
EVI:Current:Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
SEQ:Similar:Conclusion
SEQ:Evolved:Expressed
EVI:Taxes:you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
CON:Educational
EVI:Designated:perpendicular to each other marked out, and designated as “co-ordinate
EVI:Away:definite law, as we proceed farther and farther away from the earth.
SEQ:Hitherto:Have
EVI:Mechanics:according to classical mechanics, time is absolute, _i.e._ it is
CON:Preferred
SEQ:Distribution:Project
EVI:Body:tension in the rope, the man in the chest will say: “The suspended body
EVI:Regard:even need to be of such a kind that we must regard _x_1, _x_2, _x_3, as
SEQ:Space:Physics
EVI:Negative:answer must be in the negative.
SEQ:Downward:Force
CON:Supply
CON:Occur
SEQ:Particular:Occurrence
CON:Rope
SEQ:Thought:Logical
EVI:Relativity:Thus all our previous conclusions based on general relativity would
SEQ:Lake:Such
EVI:Foundation:foundation for the physical description of all natural phenomena. At
EVI:Postulate:case, and how this question is connected with the general postulate of
SEQ:Teaches:Gravitational
SEQ:Appeared:Unavoidable
EVI:Only:significance, but only serve the purpose of numbering the points of the
SEQ:Addition:Second
EVI:Theory:On the basis of the general theory of relativity, it is found that the
SEQ:Numbers:Lying
EVI:Present:matter everywhere; it would present to us that unsatisfactory picture
EVI:Quite:interpretation is quite justified also from a physical point of view.
EVI:These:explanations. Let us proceed to disclose these sins.
EVI:Carriage:of the carriage. As a consequence of his walking, however, he traverses
SEQ:Entitled:Allgemeinen
EVI:Call:value of _v_ belong to every point on the surface of the table. We call
SEQ:Simultaneity:Namely
EVI:Consideration:be obtained without caprice, however, by taking into consideration the
SEQ:Motions:Only
SEQ:Equally:Well
EVI:Experience:measuring-rod will not experience a shortening in length, as judged
SEQ:Just:Written
SEQ:Pressure:Means
EVI:Practically:by “motion relative to a practically rigid body of reference.” The
EVI:Such:only events which are localised on the _x_-axis. Any such event is
SEQ:Effort:Much
SEQ:Overlapping:Next
SEQ:Independent:Compared
EVI:Given:centre of the disc, has a velocity relative to _K_ which is given by
CON:Begins
EVI:Modification:or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
EVI:Work:of theoretical physics. The work presumes a standard of education
EVI:Rigid:In practice, the rigid surfaces which constitute the system of
EVI:Body:two clocks arranged at rest in different places of a reference-body are
CON:Differences
CON:Vanishes
EVI:About:Hitherto I have purposely refrained from speaking about the physical
SEQ:Creating:Project
EVI:Access:free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
EVI:Manner:together with the earth moves non-uniformly in such a manner that their
EVI:Natural:[1] It follows that a natural object is associated also with a
EVI:System:uniformly in a straight line with respect to a co-ordinate system _K_,
EVI:Geometrical:We can now legitimately ask as to the “truth” of geometrical
SEQ:Because:Natural
EVI:Adams:[23] Established by Adams in 1924. (Cf. p. 132)
SEQ:Middle:Aged
EVI:Observer:Hence the observer will see the beam of light emitted from _B_ earlier
SEQ:Need:Necessity
SEQ:Ordinates:Rigidly
SEQ:Assumed:Physics
SEQ:Associated:Neighbouring
SEQ:Imagine:Clocks
EVI:Applicability:scarcely likely to arise as to its applicability in practice.
EVI:Charge:and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
SEQ:Time:Consequence
SEQ:Process:Appears
SEQ:Received:Written
EVI:License:and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
EVI:Another:sphere rather than on another closed surface. But this choice has its
SEQ:Completely:Determined
SEQ:Body:Before
EVI:Particular:point with particular points of the reference-body. We can also
REL:Methods:Addresses
EVI:Position:referred, supplemented in such a manner that the object whose position
SEQ:Specification:Position
EVI:Measurement:in their subsequent measurement.
SEQ:Resolve:Themselves
SEQ:Axis:Satisfies
SEQ:Light:Arbitrary
SEQ:System:Magnitude
EVI:Project:Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread
REL:Correspond:Real
EVI:Universe:between the space-expanse of the universe and the average density of
CON:Afore
CON:Early
EVI:Second:The second class of facts to which we have alluded has reference to the
REL:Field:Giving
SEQ:Front:Range
REL:Able:Disregard
EVI:Since:(non-rotating) system _K_ as reference-body, since we may only assume
EVI:Seems:possible answer seems to result from the following consideration: If
EVI:Distance:and their rods withal as the realisation of “distance”? They cannot do
SEQ:Manner:Rectangular
EVI:Accord:reference to those fixed stars are found to be in accord with
EVI:Infinitely:the sun (_S_) were not present, a star which is practically infinitely
EVI:Genesis:last are undoubtedly the exclusive cause of the genesis of those ideas.
EVI:Mechanics:classical mechanics. The first term _mc_2 does not contain the
EVI:Position:of the train. If an observer sitting in the position _M′_ in the train
CON:Aims
SEQ:When:Rails
EVI:Ordinate:co-ordinate planes, and with regard to time by a time value _t_.
EVI:Important:theory of relativity must yield important results on the laws of
EVI:Hypothesis:This, hypothesis, which is not justifiable by any electrodynamical
EVI:Simplest:distance can be measured up. It is the simplest plan to use the train
EVI:Energy:amount of energy _E_0, then its inertial mass increases by an amount
CON:Guided
EVI:Part:electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
SEQ:Over:Some
EVI:Bodies:field of giving all bodies the same acceleration, or, what comes to the
SEQ:Upon:Laws
EVI:Marked:perpendicular to each other marked out, and designated as “co-ordinate
SEQ:Backwards:Direction
SEQ:Correctly:Also
CON:Terrestrially
SEQ:Foundation:Deductible
SEQ:Relativity:Capable
SEQ:Infinity:Terminate
SEQ:Train:Question
EVI:Every:way. With every point of the continuum, we associate arbitrarily four
EVI:Transmission:hypothesis of the hereditary transmission of acquired characters.
EVI:Equality:XX. The Equality of Inertial and Gravitational Mass as an Argument for the General Postulate of Relativity
SEQ:Relativity:Theory
EVI:Time:and the time _t_ of the events which constitute the processes of
EVI:Measuring:standard measuring-rod (a rod which is short as compared with the
SEQ:Close:Similarity
EVI:Angular:where ω represents the angular velocity of rotation of the disc _K′_
SEQ:Efforts:Project
SEQ:Formulate:General
SEQ:Follows:Directly
SEQ:Development:Individual
SEQ:Transmitted:Body
EVI:Astronomer:observations of double stars, the Dutch astronomer De Sitter was also
SEQ:City:Email
EVI:Following:After some time perhaps the following answer would occur to you: “The
EVI:Uniformly:rotating uniformly with respect to _K_. In order to fix our ideas, we
REL:Illustration:Section
EVI:Connection:he is holding in his hand. In this connection we have not taken account
EVI:Eclipse:the neighbourhood of the sun are photographed during a solar eclipse.
EVI:Different:It is a different matter when the distance has to be judged from the
SEQ:Making:More
CON:Makes
EVI:Indemnify:1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
EVI:Field:the field equations, a term which was not required by the theory as
SEQ:Points:Motion
EVI:Forward:brought forward against the general principle of relativity at the end
SEQ:Electric:Fields
SEQ:Section:Instead
EVI:Ordinates:rods, and we cannot define Cartesian co-ordinates _in the surface_.
CON:Towards
SEQ:Along:Line
EVI:Identical:rotation with regard to a Galileian system _K_, clocks of identical
EVI:General:general neither the mass _M_ nor the radius _r_ are known.
SEQ:Disc:Regard
EVI:Consider:briefly consider how this unification came about, and what meaning is
SEQ:Systematic:Theoretical
CON:Expand
CON:Preceding
EVI:Hold:1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
EVI:Rotating:rotating reference-body, go at rates which are dependent on the
SEQ:Course:Require
SEQ:Exact:Meaning
SEQ:Have:Exactly
EVI:Second:the man were to stand still for a second, he would advance relative to
CON:Bring
SEQ:Tells:Often
SEQ:Observations:What
SEQ:Caprice:However
EVI:Equally:quadrilateral figure (a square), the diagonals of which are equally
EVI:Gravitational:gravitational field is absent. But the most attractive problem, to the
SEQ:Provide:Secure
CON:Describes
EVI:Serious:of mechanics in this way, without serious reflection and detailed
EVI:Laws:(_i.e._ “really”)with respect to _K0_. In the general laws of nature
EVI:Against:sins against the sacred spirit of lucidity were I to formulate the aims
EVI:Heavenly:_M_ is the mass of the heavenly body. Thus a displacement towards the
SEQ:Difficulty:Lies
SEQ:Possess:Something
EVI:Cannot:While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
SEQ:Metre:Rest
EVI:Made:physical definition of time which is made directly with the aid of
EVI:Behaviour:transformation. We interpret this behaviour as the behaviour of
EVI:Behaviour:BEHAVIOUR OF CLOCKS AND MEASURING-RODS ON A ROTATING BODY OF REFERENCE
SEQ:Generalisation:When
EVI:Different:would be different from that emitted if the axis of the pipe were
CON:Occupied
EVI:Generations:generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
EVI:Possible:the table, it is possible quite naturally to maintain the point of view
SEQ:Arrangement:Guided
EVI:Express:transformation we can express _x′_ and _t′_ in terms of _x_ and _t_,
EVI:Time:attainable at the present time. After taking account of all the
CON:Takes
EVI:Simultaneously:assertion that these two lightning flashes occurred simultaneously. If
EVI:Fundamental:energy and the law of the conservation of mass these two fundamental
EVI:Electromagnetic:Maxwell-Lorentz theory of electromagnetic phenomena. Thus all facts of
EVI:Actual:But between the clear vision of this goal and its actual realisation it
EVI:Relativity:THE EXPERIMENTAL CONFIRMATION OF THE GENERAL THEORY OF RELATIVITY
EVI:Cease:under the first pan but not under the other, I cease to be astonished,
SEQ:Tenable:Section
SEQ:Regard:These
SEQ:Hereditary:Transmission
SEQ:Thought:Accustomed
EVI:Close:we should expect that a ray of light which is passing close to a
SEQ:Possession:Paid
SEQ:Ensure:Equality
SEQ:Sense:Euclidean
EVI:Flame:even if I have never before seen a gas flame. For I can only say that
EVI:Parabola:lie “in reality” on a straight line or on a parabola? Moreover, what is
EVI:Fundamental:fundamental difficulty attending classical celestial mechanics, which,
EVI:Come:necessarily come into disorder during the heating, because the little
EVI:System:the stars and also individual stars of the stellar system are
SEQ:Incidental:Damages
EVI:Energy:the conservation of energy, and is only valid provided that the system
SEQ:Terrestrial:Source
SEQ:Laws:Latter
EVI:Position:It is not clear what is to be understood here by “position” and
SEQ:Have:Chosen
EVI:Continuum:four-dimensional space-time continuum.
EVI:Called:logically rigid theory could be arrived at. This theory has been called
SEQ:Compared:Corresponding
SEQ:Itself:Reference
EVI:Addition:VI. The Theorem of the Addition of Velocities employed in Classical Mechanics
SEQ:Unsuccessful:Shall
EVI:Then:momentary existence without duration, then it would to described in
EVI:Potential:potential φ, hence the result we have obtained will hold quite
SEQ:Chosen:Spatially
SEQ:Found:Length
SEQ:Average:Density
EVI:Process:as a process impossible without the intervention of some intermediary
EVI:Four:XVII. Minkowski’s Four-dimensional Space
EVI:Displaced:stars ought to appear to be displaced outwards from the sun by an
SEQ:Ordinates:Possible
EVI:Quadrilateral:quadrilateral so that its diagonals may be equal. If they are equal of
SEQ:Reader:Notice
EVI:Rectangular:the law of transformation for the rectangular co-ordinates _x, y, z_
SEQ:Experiment:Brilliant
SEQ:Quite:Special
EVI:Square:other corner of a square with reference to this origin by means of two
SEQ:Field:Then
EVI:Motion:question whether or not the motion of the earth in space can be made
CON:Along
CON:Acts
EVI:Connected:phenomena connected with moving bodies show that experience in this
EVI:Manner:are regarded in an analogous manner.
EVI:Terms:• You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
EVI:Rectilinearly:rectilinearly with the velocity _c_. It can easily be shown that the
SEQ:Parabolic:Curve
EVI:Arranged:two clocks arranged at rest in different places of a reference-body are
EVI:Logical:structure the largest possible logical unity. The practice, for
SEQ:Supposing:Result
SEQ:Than:According
CON:Mathematicians
EVI:Theory:deductions from the general theory of relativity which are capable of
SEQ:Suggestive:Thought
SEQ:Distance:Same
REL:Argument:Favour
EVI:Accepting:against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
SEQ:Ascii:Other
EVI:Show:The considerations of Section XX show that the general principle of
EVI:Here:here we have the general case, corresponding to the marble slab with
EVI:Another:sun is situated at another position in the sky, _i.e._ a few months
EVI:Received:any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
CON:Shown
EVI:Theory:necessary until we come to deal with the general theory of relativity,
SEQ:General:Case
EVI:Infinitely:its permanent existence must be characterised by an infinitely large
SEQ:Motions:Velocities
SEQ:Difficulty:Over
EVI:Such:different places in such a manner that, if _A_ is simultaneous with
EVI:Hypothesis:the first to introduce the hypothesis that the form of the electron
SEQ:Only:Negligibly
EVI:Long:at a uniform rate. As long as it is moving uniformly, the occupant of
SEQ:Well:Choose
SEQ:Velocities:Stars
SEQ:Known:Require
EVI:Clock:position, of the pointers of the other clock, then identical “settings”
EVI:Reason:the carriage is not sensible of its motion, and it is for this reason
CON:Traced
EVI:Also:might also interpret his experience thus: “My body of reference (the
SEQ:Whenever:Copy
SEQ:Inertial:Mass
REL:Lorentz:Fitzgerald
SEQ:Start:Rest
SEQ:Force:Acting
SEQ:Found:Accord
REL:License:Intellectual
EVI:Distance:greatest distance of the planet from the sun.
EVI:Observe:neither case, and if I observe that the one continuously emits steam
EVI:Further:significance of the statement is clear in itself and needs no further
EVI:Before:of the country where you are located before using this eBook.
EVI:Case:lead directly to those of the former for the case in which the fields
SEQ:Means:Measurements
EVI:Another:We can state this general principle of relativity in still another
EVI:Transformation:transformation, but, differing from classical mechanics, the _Lorentz
EVI:Heavenly:heavenly body would be deviated towards the latter. For a ray of light
SEQ:Means:Numerical
EVI:Appendixes:[21] Cf. Appendixes I and II. The relations which are derived there
SEQ:Removed:Sufficiently
SEQ:Considerations:State
SEQ:Nearly:Purpose
SEQ:Isolated:Material
EVI:Hypotheses:nature, and was obtained by the use of particular hypotheses as to the
CON:Subject
REL:Problem:Space
SEQ:Relativity:Simple
SEQ:Relativity:Equation
SEQ:Take:Railway
EVI:Observed:satisfactory manner. The rectangular components of the observed and of
EVI:Manipulations:perpendiculars can be determined by a series of manipulations with
EVI:Dimensional:“Euclidean” four-dimensional continuum, a result which follows from the
REL:Assumed:Physics
EVI:Legal:liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
EVI:Project:of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
SEQ:Body:Guided
EVI:Period:angle described by the line joining sun and planet during such a period
EVI:Geometrical:I. Physical Meaning of Geometrical Propositions
SEQ:Meaning:Motion
SEQ:Remain:Less
SEQ:Description:Chosen
EVI:Point:In point of fact, astronomers have found that the theory of Newton does
EVI:Reader:Perhaps the reader will wonder why we have placed our “beings” on a
EVI:Place:embankment. How are we to find the place and time of an event in
SEQ:Poised:Freely
SEQ:Terms:Linear
SEQ:Occur:Point
EVI:Area:for still further increasing values of _r_, the area gradually
SEQ:Values:Time
CON:Employee
EVI:General:Every general law of nature must be so constituted that it is
EVI:Accept:and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
EVI:Existence:its permanent existence must be characterised by an infinitely large
EVI:Transformations:general sense from two kinds of transformations, viz. from Lorentz
EVI:Experiment:whatever kind of body he may happen to use for the experiment._
SEQ:Mirrors:Moving
SEQ:Easily:Seen
SEQ:Time:Course
SEQ:Section:Only
CON:Analyse
EVI:Possible:this supposition would only be possible if we already had at our
SEQ:Quite:Justified
EVI:Stars:In addition, a second photograph of the same stars is taken when the
EVI:Maintain:would permanently maintain its position with respect to the fixed
SEQ:Contended:Opponents
EVI:Three:following. If at any moment three squares meet at a corner, then two
EVI:Measuring:means of measuring-rods and clocks. If we had based our considerations
SEQ:System:Rest
SEQ:Mechanics:Brought
SEQ:Reason:Supposing
CON:Carefully
EVI:Through:travel through space, we should find everywhere an attenuated swarm of
EVI:Apparatus:the theory, but who are not conversant with the mathematical apparatus
REL:Period:Application
SEQ:Permanently:Rest
EVI:Correspond:ideas correspond to more or less exact objects in nature, and these
EVI:Place:in place of _t_, as time-variable. If, in accordance with this, we
EVI:Other:of each other, on which electrodynamics was built.
SEQ:Sphere:Interior
SEQ:Part:Should
SEQ:Valid:Both
EVI:Special:XVIII. Special and General Principle of Relativity
EVI:Under:“upwards,” in order to arrive at the corner of the square under
CON:Obtainable
SEQ:Course:Conviction
SEQ:Body:Rest
SEQ:Number:Points
CON:Discontinue
EVI:Evolution:of evolution of an empirical science to be a continuous process of
CON:Visit
SEQ:Represented:Much
EVI:Surface:this “infinitely dense” system covers the whole surface of the table.
EVI:Clear:_A priori_ it is quite clear that we must be able to learn something
EVI:Atom:generally for gravitational fields. Furthermore, we can regard an atom
SEQ:Imagine:Epitome
CON:Former
EVI:Uniformly:reference-body _K′_ moving uniformly with respect to _K_, if we assume
EVI:These:We must draw attention here to one of these deviations. According to
EVI:Identically:identically satisfied by the transformation can be expressed thus:
EVI:Gutenberg:Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
CON:Find
SEQ:Laws:Mechanics
SEQ:Astronomers:Have
EVI:Found:a specific illustration in Section XXIII, we found that the presence of
EVI:Answer:universe, considered as a whole, is to be regarded, the first answer
EVI:Gutenberg:Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
EVI:Large:changes in energy _E_0 to which we can subject a system are not large
SEQ:Indicated:Principles
EVI:Orbit:exceedingly slowly in the plane of the orbit and in the sense of the
EVI:Body:judged from this reference-body, the time which elapses between two
REL:Numbers:Them
SEQ:Independent:Validity
REL:Number:Single
EVI:Mechanics:The purpose of mechanics is to describe how bodies change their
EVI:Possible:possible. This incomplete suggestion will suffice for the present
EVI:Railway:our example of the railway carriage supposed to be travelling
SEQ:Ordinates:Differ
EVI:Must:law of inertia. So that if we adhere to this law we must refer these
EVI:Body:the inertial mass of a body is not a constant but varies according to
EVI:Theory:satisfactory. According to this theory there is no such thing as a
CON:Untenable
SEQ:Against:Accepting
EVI:States:country other than the United States.
SEQ:Remaining:Sides
SEQ:Characterise:Generalised
SEQ:Without:Suffering
EVI:Required:making the adjustments required for the taking of the photographs, and
EVI:Denote:section. If we denote the velocity of the light relative to the tube by
EVI:Relativity:SPECIAL AND GENERAL PRINCIPLE OF RELATIVITY
EVI:Train:_A′_ and _B′_ the two points on the train whose distance apart is
EVI:Other:itself and sufficiently far removed from all other particles moves
EVI:Rest:so that they are at rest relative to it. We now ask ourselves whether
SEQ:Numerical:Values
SEQ:Ordinate:Planes
EVI:Appropriate:of the case clearer by means of an appropriate comparison. Before the
EVI:Above:are simultaneously (in the above sense) the same. Under these
EVI:Respect:regarding _K_ as at rest with respect to a hypothetical æther of space.
EVI:Theory:Lorentz and FitzGerald rescued the theory from this difficulty by
EVI:Newton:minimum. If instead of Newton’s law we insert a somewhat different law
EVI:Nature:such a nature that numerical values differing very slightly from each
EVI:Respect:were to be regarded as in motion with respect to the æther. To this
EVI:Mass:unit of mass against the centrifugal force in order to transport it
EVI:Easily:rectilinearly with the velocity _c_. It can easily be shown that the
EVI:General:which, in general, is built up logically from a small number of
EVI:Name:Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
EVI:Lines:from large stars, as compared with the corresponding lines for light
REL:Difficulties:Newton
REL:Support:Donations
EVI:Clocks:behaviour of measuring-rods and clocks and also of freely-moving
SEQ:Rest:Have
EVI:Sense:sense. For it is composed of individual events, each of which is
EVI:Expression:they are nothing more than the expression of the universal validity of
EVI:Derived:gravitational field _G_, which was derived from the Galileian special
EVI:Place:In the first place, we imagine an existence in two dimensional space.
SEQ:Removed:Body
EVI:Insert:section. If instead of “body of reference” we insert “system of
EVI:Gravitational:of a gravitational field. Nevertheless, the space-distribution of this
EVI:Gutenberg:Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™
SEQ:Organized:Under
EVI:Reality:points which can claim a physical existence are in reality the
EVI:Field:field is absent _i.e._ which have already been fitted into the frame of
SEQ:Physical:Phenomena
SEQ:Afore:Mentioned
EVI:State:state of motion. But before proceeding farther, it ought to be pointed
SEQ:Continuum:Special
SEQ:Hold:Reality
SEQ:Imagine:Above
EVI:Mechanics:classical mechanics; these are as follows:
EVI:Principle:30 kilometres per second. If the principle of relativity were not valid
SEQ:Curves:Attach
SEQ:Approximation:Newtonian
EVI:Indicated:Minkowski, which was only vaguely indicated in Section XVII. In
EVI:Have:which have been formulated with reference to _K_, the magnitude and
EVI:British:We are indebted to the [British] Royal Society and to the Royal
SEQ:Part:Shall
EVI:Permits:Finally, the general principle of relativity permits us to determine
EVI:Judged:travelling train. Just when the flashes (as judged from the embankment)
EVI:Fulfilled:fulfilled if we are to maintain the law of the constancy of the
EVI:Attempts:In one of the most notable of these attempts Michelson devised a method
EVI:International:International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
EVI:Consideration:But, from our above consideration, this would appear to be impossible.
EVI:Organized:501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
EVI:Earlier:earlier or later. As compared with the standard photograph, the
SEQ:Differences:These
EVI:Earth:the following way. As seen from the earth, certain fixed stars appear
EVI:Almost:followed the preceding discussion are almost sure to expect that we
EVI:Bottomless:that one would get into bottomless speculations if one departed from
EVI:Field:something being what we call a “magnetic field.” In its turn this
EVI:Relative:clock per unit time (“rate” of the clock) relative to _K_ when the
SEQ:Point:Without
EVI:Euclidean:AS A EUCLIDEAN CONTINUUM
EVI:Newton:COSMOLOGICAL DIFFICULTIES OF NEWTON’S THEORY
EVI:Have:he is holding in his hand. In this connection we have not taken account
SEQ:Genesis:Those
EVI:Propositions:PHYSICAL MEANING OF GEOMETRICAL PROPOSITIONS
SEQ:Spherical:World
EVI:Random:Now let us refer this domain to a random Gauss coordinate system or to
EVI:Must:immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
SEQ:Deviated:Towards
EVI:Uniform:Galileian law of the uniform rectilinear motion of “isolated” material
EVI:Hundredths:hundredths of a millimetre only. Thus great accuracy was necessary in
EVI:Ebook:This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
SEQ:Than:United
EVI:Theory:*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK RELATIVITY: THE SPECIAL AND GENERAL THEORY ***
SEQ:Must:Placed
SEQ:Necessary:Take
SEQ:Equal:Mass
EVI:Little:Let us now imagine that a large number of little rods of equal length
EVI:Small:to the defined “size” or “distance,” small parts of the continuum under
EVI:Rope:of the tension of the rope is the _gravitational mass_ of the suspended
SEQ:Modified:General
SEQ:Length:Pole
EVI:Events:with a velocity _c_ = 300,000 km./sec. At all events we know with great
SEQ:Last:Form
EVI:Recognised:invalidate it, but without success. But E. Mach recognised it most
EVI:Shall:simultaneous _relatively to the train?_ We shall show directly that the
EVI:Required:slightly different time _T′_ is required for this process, if the body,
EVI:These:So far, these considerations hold for a continuum of two dimensions.
EVI:Moment:any moment would enter into the laws of nature, and also that physical
SEQ:Field:Embankment
SEQ:Encounter:Hands
EVI:Connection:to objects of experience, but only with the logical connection of these
EVI:Easily:Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
EVI:Seen:in consequence of what we have seen above.
SEQ:Large:Enough
EVI:Light:sun,[22] and a displacement of the spectral lines of light reaching us
SEQ:Accept:Terms
SEQ:Axis:Such
EVI:Time:After some time perhaps the following answer would occur to you: “The
EVI:Every:individual events relative to both reference-bodies, such that every
EVI:Relative:be assumed relative to the earth, and for a long time the efforts of
EVI:Long:be assumed relative to the earth, and for a long time the efforts of
SEQ:Ordinates:Speak
EVI:Unable:difficulty that electrodynamic theory of itself is unable to give an
SEQ:Checks:Online
SEQ:Sides:Fourth
SEQ:Designated:Ordinate
EVI:More:the clock goes more slowly than when at rest. Here also the velocity
EVI:Arrive:a _stipulation_ which I can make of my own freewill in order to arrive
EVI:Project:the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
CON:Distance
EVI:Domain:(_b_) If there is any matter in the domain under consideration, only
SEQ:Number:Statements
EVI:Respect:be given relative to the train in exactly the same way as with respect
EVI:Ellipse:orbital ellipse was 43 seconds of arc per century, an amount ensured to
CON:Inferences
EVI:Arrangement:arrangement of the remaining two sides of the square is already
EVI:Further:This stipulation contains a further physical hypothesis, the validity
EVI:Measures:measures the interval by marking off his measuring-rod in a straight
EVI:Velocity:able to show that the velocity of propagation of light cannot depend on
EVI:Reference:uniformly in a straight line. With reference to K (Galileian
EVI:Structure:requiring any special hypothesis whatsoever as to the structure and the
EVI:Cosmological:knowledge about the structure of space in the large (“cosmological
SEQ:Theory:Also
SEQ:Planet:Mercury
EVI:Marble:these squares until finally the whole marble slab is laid out with
EVI:System:mirror to the other and back again, if the whole system be at rest with
EVI:Treating:undertook the task of treating this two-dimensional geometry from
EVI:Longer:material point of mass _m_ is no longer given by the well-known
SEQ:Such:Events
EVI:Surface:is a “surface of constant curvature.”
SEQ:Seems:Suggest
SEQ:Simple:Derivation
SEQ:Opinion:Existence
EVI:Works:distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.
EVI:Theory:It is clear from our previous considerations that the (special) theory
EVI:Possibility:the possibility of the exact validity of Euclidean geometry in our
CON:Negligence
REL:Meet:Physical
EVI:Explanations:explanations. Let us proceed to disclose these sins.
EVI:Motion:of motion has been suitably chosen. _K_ is then a Galileian
SEQ:Medium:Must
SEQ:Seeliger:Ponder
EVI:Very:motions, in which the velocities of matter _v_ are not very small as
EVI:Valid:for the co-ordinates themselves are valid also for co-ordinate
EVI:Considered:construction, and which are considered at rest with respect to the
SEQ:Galilei:Transformation
REL:Results:Physical
EVI:Masses:account of their nature. For since electrical masses of one sign repel
SEQ:What:Velocity
REL:Strokes:Lightning
EVI:Phenomena:with such exactness in one domain of phenomena, and yet should be
EVI:Occurrence:considerations, the time required by a particular occurrence with
EVI:What:theory would have been disproved. Let us now examine what general
EVI:Suppose:special theory of relativity hold relative to _K_. Let us suppose the
SEQ:Milky:Ways
EVI:Gutenberg:Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™
EVI:Quite:nature; the laws themselves must be quite independent of the choice of
SEQ:Generally:Every
EVI:Means:disposal the means of measuring time. It would thus appear as though we
EVI:Heavenly:furnish us with important information as to the mass of the heavenly
SEQ:Objective:Special
EVI:Where:would reach him simultaneously, _i.e._ they would meet just where he is
EVI:Particular:considerations, the time required by a particular occurrence with
EVI:Structure:has considerably simplified the theoretical structure, _i.e._ the
EVI:Orbit:orbit of the planet an ellipse, which is fixed with reference to the
SEQ:Physics:Above
EVI:Relative:ray will be transmitted with the velocity _c_ relative to the
EVI:Reference:possible to choose a Galileian reference-body for this part of space
SEQ:Derived:General
CON:Detailed
EVI:Inertial:the equality of inertial and gravitational mass. Thus we have obtained
EVI:Resistance:throwing it. Then, disregarding the influence of the air resistance, I
CON:Radially
SEQ:Foundations:Theory
SEQ:Stars:Taken
SEQ:Cannot:Rest
SEQ:Consideration:Supplies
EVI:Have:have to do with places and times relative both to the train and to the
EVI:Contained:accordance with the discussion contained in the preceding section, it
EVI:Never:considerations only for the case, which is never strictly realised, in
EVI:Conception:justification for this incidental conception, which is indeed a
CON:Analogously
SEQ:Special:Kind
CON:Disclaimer
SEQ:Indicated:Also
EVI:Respect:laws would hold than with respect to _K0_. This diminished simplicity
EVI:Surface:their measuring-rods and other objects fit exactly on this surface and
EVI:Results:Pure “space-distance” of two events with respect to _K_ results in
EVI:Calling:of its merits for the description of natural phenomena) in calling this
SEQ:Planet:Lies
SEQ:Unlimited:Validity
CON:Science
EVI:Resulting:referred. The resulting relationship takes for granted that the laws of
CON:Ever
EVI:Diminution:order correctly to represent the diminution of gravitational action
SEQ:Unable:Forest
SEQ:Whether:Effect
EVI:Example:(Gaussian co-ordinates). For example, the point _P_ in the diagram has
SEQ:Form:Radiation
EVI:Must:Δ_x_ in (7) must be equal to Δ_x′_ in (7_a_), so that we obtain
EVI:Dissatisfied:dissatisfied until I have discovered some circumstance to which I can
EVI:Enterprise:his observations. What will be his experience in this enterprise?
EVI:Clocks:reference-body _K_. The behaviour of measuring-rods and clocks with
CON:Determine
SEQ:Comparison:Lengths
SEQ:Following:Imagine
REL:Development:Theoretical
EVI:Fields:small for the gravitational fields at our disposal in practice, its
EVI:Problem:without further opportunities to fix the problem.
EVI:Body:reference-body for the description of any event (for this, too, is
EVI:Readable:electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
SEQ:Every:Material
SEQ:Replacement:Copy
SEQ:Other:Half
SEQ:Removed:Other
CON:Photographic
EVI:Violates:rather admit that his mode of grasping the situation violates neither
CON:Optics
EVI:State:a state of uniform motion of translation relative to _K_, or, briefly,
EVI:Theory:The theory of gravitation derived in this way from the general
EVI:Resuits:In view of the resuIts of these considerations we are led to the
EVI:Propagation:Of course we must refer the process of the propagation of light (and
CON:Supplementary
EVI:Event:quite inadequate. What does it mean to assign to an event the
EVI:Long:_continuum_. Thus it is that mathematicians long ago solved the formal
CON:Regions
EVI:Relation:relation between _x′_ and _t′_. In point of fact, if we substitute for
SEQ:Fairer:Destiny
CON:Transition
SEQ:Radius:World
SEQ:Transmitted:Along
CON:Relativity
SEQ:Time:Coordinate
EVI:What:appreciate with sufficient clearness what I mean here by “neighbouring”
EVI:Position:(_b_) In locating the position of the object, we make use of a number
EVI:Iron:medium. If, for instance, a magnet attracts a piece of iron, we cannot
SEQ:Produce:Ebooks
EVI:Thus:thus comes out smaller than _c_.
SEQ:Suppose:Chest
EVI:Theory:contintium—accordance with the special theory of relativity—as a
EVI:Reference:Events which are simultaneous with reference to the embankment are not
EVI:Continuum:sense also a continuum; for to every event there are as many
EVI:Read:electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
SEQ:Associated:Accessed
SEQ:Follows:Special
SEQ:Carriage:Traverses
SEQ:Greatest:Possible
SEQ:Events:Each
EVI:Traverses:the carriage, who traverses the distance _w per second_ relative to the
EVI:Physical:points which can claim a physical existence are in reality the
SEQ:Extent:Special
CON:Ends
SEQ:Immediate:Neighbourhood
EVI:Comparison:time mentioned above. Comparison with the discussion in Section XII
CON:Paying
EVI:Nature:_supposition nor a hypothesis_ about the physical nature of light, but
SEQ:Light:Conjunction
EVI:Have:Up to the present, however, we have by no means maintained the
EVI:Them:Poincaré, whereas I can only touch on them briefly here.
SEQ:Legally:Required
EVI:Effect:It is an open question whether or not this effect exists, and at the
SEQ:Represented:Physically
EVI:Moving:whole not only moving in any way whatsoever, but which also suffer
SEQ:Body:Occupied
EVI:Newton:obtained here without any particular assumption, whereas Newton had to
SEQ:Same:Laws
SEQ:Applies:Only
EVI:Easily:another conclusion from the theory, one which can easily be derived
EVI:Place:In the second place our result shows that, according to the general
EVI:Body:when the reference-body is rotating uniformly.
SEQ:About:Project
EVI:Spread:The surface of a marble table is spread out in front of me. I can get
SEQ:Light:Strict
SEQ:Present:Shall
EVI:Relativity:the theory of relativity. In the equation
SEQ:Power:Abstraction
EVI:Epitomised:Our train of thought in the foregoing pages can be epitomised in the
EVI:Magnet:to imagine—after the manner of Faraday—that the magnet always calls
SEQ:Strike:Places
EVI:Replacement:1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
SEQ:Hypothesis:Appeared
EVI:Field:known that a gravitational field influences the movement of bodies in
SEQ:Farther:Away
SEQ:Analogous:Consideration
EVI:Principle:Moreover, according to the special principle of relativity, this
SEQ:Collection:Despite
EVI:Relativity:RELATIVITY: THE SPECIAL AND GENERAL THEORY
SEQ:Foundation:Your
EVI:Being:distance being measurable and well defined from a physical point of
EVI:Determine:determine the corresponding values of the time by the observation of
EVI:Field:same laws, even in the case where the prevailing gravitational field is
EVI:Square:on the Square, so that it reaches the cloud. The length of the pole
EVI:Judged:one second as judged from the embankment.
EVI:Simple:reference-body) the laws of nature were to be as simple as possible.
SEQ:Entirely:Shun
EVI:Entirely:entirely shun the vague word “space,” of which, we must honestly
SEQ:Appears:Though
EVI:Interaction:without ever again coming into interaction with other objects of
EVI:Gutenberg:1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:
CON:Possibilities
EVI:Influence:measuring-rods, clocks and material points under the influence of the
EVI:Equations:The equations (6) and (7_b_) determine the constants _a_ and _b_. By
EVI:Gutenberg:distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.
SEQ:Other:Negative
SEQ:Assumed:Only
EVI:Considered:universe, considered as a whole, is to be regarded, the first answer
SEQ:Format:Must
EVI:Hitherto:results the latter theory has hitherto evinced.
EVI:Decreases:it thenceforward gradually decreases to zero for still further
SEQ:Position:Defining
EVI:Work:copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
SEQ:Potzdammer:Platz
SEQ:These:Lengths
EVI:Regard:rotation with regard to a Galileian system _K_, clocks of identical
EVI:Transcribe:effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
SEQ:Simultaneity:Such
EVI:Only:getting into the greatest difficulties. We only need to think of the
EVI:Here:nor any experiment with which to demonstrate it. Here the contraction
EVI:Stars:fixed stars of approrimately the same kind and density.
EVI:Towards:strives to move towards the magnet. We shall not discuss here the
SEQ:However:Obtain
EVI:Proceed:in which the density of the stars is a maximum, and that as we proceed
EVI:Relativity:XXVI. The Space-Time Continuum of the Special Theory of Relativity Considered as a Euclidean Continuum
EVI:Development:comparison. Regarded in this way, the development of a science bears
EVI:Velocity:is the required velocity of light with respect to the carriage, and we
EVI:Individual:States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
EVI:Astronomy:astronomy makes it appear likely that the development of individual
SEQ:Favour:Principle
EVI:Thus:geometrical relationships in the surface, and thus pointed out the way
CON:Significance
EVI:Square:testing-rod. To this square we add similar ones, each of which has one
SEQ:Taking:Account
SEQ:Things:Influenced
REL:Move:Quite
SEQ:Anyone:Forty
EVI:Physical:On the basis of the physical interpretation of distance which has been
EVI:Rather:empirical data, the investigator rather develops a system of thought
REL:Said:Hold
EVI:Construction:in this sense we understand its validity for a construction with rule
SEQ:School:Knows
CON:Erected
EVI:Used:It is clear that this definition can be used to give an exact meaning
CON:Possessed
EVI:Geometrical:According to Gauss, this combined analytical and geometrical mode of
EVI:Accuracy:the distance between them. If we increase the accuracy of the
EVI:Status:status with the IRS.
SEQ:Supplementing:Them
EVI:Modified:Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may
EVI:Second:In the second place our result shows that, according to the general
SEQ:Specifications:Position
SEQ:Discussed:Detail
EVI:Classical:more and more evident that classical mechanics affords an insufficient
EVI:Xxvi:XXVI. The Space-Time Continuum of the Special Theory of Relativity Considered as a Euclidean Continuum
EVI:Situated:sky when the sun is situated at another part of the heavens. The
CON:Inadequate
EVI:Reader:at the root of things, I dare not withhold it from the reader. We
EVI:Cases:which they have access is in both cases practically plane, or
EVI:Learn:length of the metre-rod relatively to the system _K_? In order to learn
EVI:Following:possible answer seems to result from the following consideration: If
EVI:Under:proportional to it. Under these conditions, the natural laws satisfying
SEQ:Systems:Should
EVI:Other:one can be laid on any other without the ends overlapping. We next lay
SEQ:Exceed:Corresponding
EVI:Defined:distance being measurable and well defined from a physical point of
EVI:Body:always choose another reference-body such that _no_ gravitational field
REL:Discovery:Minkowski
EVI:Agreement:even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
REL:Ought:Manifest
EVI:General:Galilei) is executing an accelerated and in general curvilinear motion
EVI:Marble:The surface of a marble table is spread out in front of me. I can get
REL:Kind:Then
CON:Epoch
SEQ:Project:Gutenberg
SEQ:Relativity:Problem
EVI:Make:measures to make ourselves independent of the existence of marked
EVI:System:system _K′_ in accordance with the equation
SEQ:Physical:Medium
EVI:Space:In the first place, we imagine an existence in two dimensional space.
EVI:Ought:Ought we to smile at the man and say that he errs in his conclusion? I
CON:Curvilinearly
EVI:Certainly:In accordance with the principle of relativity we shall certainly have
EVI:Appear:relativity became ripe for discussion, and it did not appear impossible
EVI:Right:solution of the difficulty was the right one. But on the basis of the
REL:Velocity:Revolution
EVI:Motion:translational motion relative to each other. Relative to other
EVI:Generations:remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
EVI:Reference:reference to _K′_ must be exactly the same as the length, as judged
EVI:Temperature:local variations of temperature, and with which we made acquaintance as
EVI:Motions:relative motions of the fixed stars with respect to the earth on the
EVI:Three:three-dimensional continuum of Euclidean geometrical space.[14] In
EVI:Capable:capable of being tested, the agreement between the theories may be so
SEQ:Solar:System
SEQ:Defective:Demand
SEQ:Obtained:Following
EVI:Respective:be as near as we choose to the respective values of the co-ordinates
SEQ:Pronounced:Relationship
SEQ:When:Imagine
EVI:Also:transmission of electromagnetic waves. The effects of gravitation also
EVI:Overthrown:relativity that the special theory of relativity is overthrown by the
EVI:Rest:year, the earth cannot be at rest relative to the hypothetical system
EVI:Event:vertical direction by means of a framework of rods, so that an event
EVI:Four:two squares and each corner to four squares.
EVI:Those:rods on the central region of the table expand, whereas those on the
EVI:Increases:sphere-beings the circumference of a circle first increases with the
EVI:General:In contrast to this we wish to understand by the “general principle of
SEQ:Rigidly:Respect
CON:Requiring
EVI:Addition:purely formal addition to our knowledge, the theory perforce gained
EVI:Other:without ever again coming into interaction with other objects of
EVI:Over:transformation for changing over from one body of reference to another.
EVI:General:respect to _K′_ according to exactly the same general laws as with
SEQ:Potential:Then
EVI:Disc:the disc, then we have
SEQ:Action:Other
EVI:Proceed:starting from the origin, I proceed towards the “right” and then
SEQ:Must:Therefore
EVI:Wish:1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
CON:Abscissa
SEQ:Permanent:Existence
SEQ:Those:Gravitational
SEQ:Natural:Simple
EVI:Hold:laws would hold than with respect to _K0_. This diminished simplicity
EVI:Distance:which passes the sun at a distance of Δ sun-radii from its centre, the
SEQ:Making:Lorentz
CON:Brazil
SEQ:Consideration:Light
SEQ:Prepare:Reader
EVI:Effects:effects produced on the light reaching us from the fixed stars. These
EVI:View:From our point of view this means: The law governing the properties of
SEQ:Warranties:Kind
SEQ:Relativity:Velocity
SEQ:Accompanying:Diagram
CON:Estimated
EVI:Considered:reference-body as regards the domain considered, and the results of the
SEQ:Becomes:Difficult
EVI:Should:along the rails, the connecting line _AB_ should be measured up and an
EVI:Same:equations of the same form when, by making use of the Lorentz
EVI:Light:VII. The Apparent Incompatability of the Law of Propagation of Light with the Principle of Relativity
SEQ:Square:Belongs
SEQ:Employ:Standard
EVI:Ordinate:of this corner with reference to the “Cartesian co-ordinate system”
SEQ:Attached:Ground
EVI:Copyright:editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
EVI:Down:down by Euclidean geometry.
SEQ:Definite:Transformation
EVI:Transmission:the law of the transmission of light _in vacuo_ [in vacuum] must,
EVI:Theory:ideas of either the special or the general theory of relativity, I
CON:Irregularly
CON:Merchantability
EVI:Self:circle, _i.e._ a self-contained line of definite finite length, which
EVI:Fact:interpretation can be obtained only if we recognise the following fact:
SEQ:Have:Carefully
CON:Path
SEQ:Place:Walking
EVI:Relativity:general principle of relativity given in Section XVIII by an exact
SEQ:Access:Project
EVI:Appeals:should retain the principle of relativity, which appeals so
SEQ:Small:Staff
SEQ:Positions:Scenes
EVI:Project:including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
SEQ:Floor:Chest
SEQ:Postulates:Obtained
EVI:Differs:universe. But it is conceivable that our universe differs only slightly
EVI:Less:ideas correspond to more or less exact objects in nature, and these
EVI:Relativity:Furthermore, the principle of relativity teaches us that, as judged
SEQ:Showed:Shift
SEQ:Writing:Mail
SEQ:Disposal:Means
EVI:Facts:general theory of relativity, it is perhaps advisable to make the facts
CON:Rightly
EVI:Gravitational:gravitational field receive an acceleration, _which does not in the
SEQ:Another:Moving
EVI:Relativity:postulate of relativity.
EVI:Unit:With reference to our little rods—defined as unit lengths—the marble
EVI:Bodies:for what follows. Bodies which are moving under the sole influence of a
SEQ:Even:Mathematician
EVI:Restrictions:most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
EVI:Zeeman:According to recent and most excellent measurements by Zeeman, the
SEQ:Question:Whether
EVI:Century:Mercury it must amount to 43 seconds of arc per century, a result which
EVI:Place:previous section the answer is self-evident. In the first place we
EVI:Vantage:train will with a vantage view the train as a rigid reference-body
EVI:Indicated:function of a straight line. In the manner indicated in Section II we
EVI:Coincide:coincide with these two points; for how else should we define the
SEQ:Molluscs:Used
SEQ:Consideration:Just
EVI:Yearly:experience. We refer to the yearly movement of the apparent position of
EVI:Than:than 1, since, according to Section XII, moving bodies suffer a
SEQ:Point:Under
CON:Bodies
SEQ:Require:Obtain
EVI:Ordinate:the Gauss co-ordinate system is the (really unjustified) formal
EVI:Ordinates:is clear that Gauss co-ordinates are nothing more than an association
EVI:General:XXII. A Few Inferences from the General Principle of Relativity
SEQ:Newtonian:Mechanics
CON:Theorems
REL:System:Michelson
EVI:Interpretation:interpretation, and which, according to Section XXVI, can be regarded
SEQ:Dials:Just
CON:Define
SEQ:Construction:Squares
SEQ:Provided:Numbers
EVI:Accepted:generally accepted by physicists even if experiment had decided less
SEQ:Whether:Conception
EVI:Energy:the conservation of energy (and of impulse).
EVI:Statement:statement of time refers, there is no meaning in a statement of the
EVI:Every:the mollusc is treated as a space-point, and every material point which
EVI:Catalogue:some resemblance to the compilation of a classified catalogue. It is,
REL:Fixed:Respect
EVI:Minkowski:II. Minkowski’s Four-Dimensional Space (“World”) (supplementary to section XVII)
SEQ:Fitzgerald:Rescued
EVI:Natural:proportional to it. Under these conditions, the natural laws satisfying
CON:Homogeneous
SEQ:Ordinates:Dropped
SEQ:Protected:Copyright
CON:Happy
EVI:Hypothesis:introduction of an auxiliary hypothesis, which in itself—_i.e._ without
EVI:Opinion:“vertically” downwards. If we ask for an opinion of the cause of
REL:Sought:Accordance
SEQ:Right:Then
EVI:Light:only I knew that the light by means of which the observer at _M_
SEQ:When:Situated
SEQ:Liable:Actual
EVI:Framework:solid bodies. In every such framework we imagine three surfaces
SEQ:Have:Farther
EVI:Answer:with this answer for the following reason. Supposing that as a result
CON:Edition
EVI:Unequivocally:unequivocally in its favour.
EVI:Contain:contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
SEQ:Produced:Analogous
SEQ:Contact:Foundation
EVI:Term:hypothesis (1) without introducing the less natural cosmological term
EVI:Relativity:seen that the general theory of relativity enables us to derive
EVI:Convince:observer will further convince himself _that the acceleration of the
SEQ:Longer:Carried
EVI:Propagation:hypothesis about the law of propagation of light; it must certainly be
SEQ:Made:Rigid
EVI:Than:other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
SEQ:Being:Rest
EVI:Constant:it is of constant velocity and direction, “translation” because
SEQ:Same:Initial
EVI:Theoretical:brilliant theoretical physicist L. Boltzmann, according to whom matters
SEQ:Disc:Dividing
EVI:Freewill:a _stipulation_ which I can make of my own freewill in order to arrive
EVI:Light:existence of the deflection of light demanded by theory was first
EVI:Shall:shall imagine _K′_ to be in the form of a plane circular disc, which
SEQ:Year:Distance
SEQ:Diminution:Gravitational
SEQ:Section:Like
EVI:Spaces:It follows from what has been said, that closed spaces without limits
EVI:Laws:equal right and equal success in the formulation of the general laws of
REL:Measurement:Length
SEQ:Natural:Processes
SEQ:Clocks:Shall
SEQ:Able:State
SEQ:Apparent:Incompatability
SEQ:Result:Shows
SEQ:Than:Corresponds
EVI:English:I have chosen this as being more familiar to the English reader than
EVI:Expression:In the first place, we see from this expression that two clocks of
EVI:System:independent of the position and the condition of motion of the system
EVI:Simultaneous:_B_, and _B_ is simultaneous with _C_ (simultaneous in the sense of
EVI:North:The Foundation’s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
SEQ:Please:Check
SEQ:Motion:Clocks
REL:Propositions:Geometry
EVI:Gravitational:order correctly to represent the diminution of gravitational action
EVI:Exactly:mechanical laws of Galilei-Newton hold good exactly as they do with
EVI:Each:table. These we designate as _u_-curves, and we indicate each of them
SEQ:Forth:Paragraph
SEQ:Delicacy:Detail
CON:Independent
EVI:Independently:individual rods always represent the same distance, independently of
EVI:Event:relation to the train, when we know the place and time of the event
EVI:Cannot:meaning. We cannot ask whether it is true that only one straight line
EVI:General:events with respect to _K′_ does not in general vanish, even when the
CON:Surfaces
SEQ:Absorbs:Emits
SEQ:Distributing:Work
EVI:Marble:the variably heated marble slab, and if we had no other means of
EVI:Time:field which is constant with regard to time. Of course he will be
SEQ:Shows:However
SEQ:Present:Before
EVI:Event:reference-body for the description of any event (for this, too, is
EVI:Exists:there exists (during the period of application of the brakes) a
SEQ:Theoretical:Point
EVI:Definition:determined by applying the definition of time given in Section VIII.
REL:Standing:Front
EVI:Foundations:XXI. In What Respects are the Foundations of Classical Mechanics and of the Special Theory of Relativity Unsatisfactory?
REL:Agreed:Donate
EVI:Position:relative position of which in the four-dimensional continuum is given
SEQ:Diminished:Simplicity
EVI:Both:reference-bodies _K_ the law is not valid. Both in classical mechanics
CON:Forward
EVI:Field:motion, then relative to _K′_ there exists a gravitational field which
SEQ:Relativity:Without
SEQ:Learn:Something
REL:Idea:Time
EVI:Hold:claim an unlimited domain of validity; its results hold only so long as
EVI:Another:unheard-of values—provided that we are viewing all this from another
EVI:Have:the equality of inertial and gravitational mass. Thus we have obtained
SEQ:Traverses:Straight
CON:Large
EVI:Mass:XX. The Equality of Inertial and Gravitational Mass as an Argument for the General Postulate of Relativity
EVI:Noble:with the noble building of Euclid’s geometry, and you remember—perhaps
EVI:Cost:most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
CON:Perhaps
SEQ:Ordinates:Time
SEQ:Feel:Constrained
SEQ:Century:Repeated
SEQ:Therefore:Take
EVI:Marked:payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
EVI:Transformation:Galileian transformation (_t′_ = _t_).
EVI:Dimensional:a curve, which we “three-dimensional beings” designate as a great
SEQ:These:Works
CON:Selected
EVI:Geometry:plane Euclidean geometry with their rods. In this connection the
REL:Position:Derive
EVI:Over:[2] Here we have assumed that there is nothing left over _i.e._ that
SEQ:Overthrown:Field
REL:Definition:Simultaneity
CON:Studied
EVI:Particularly:($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
EVI:Question:that the answer to this question might be in the negative.
EVI:Natural:natural processes, the laws of which are already known when a
SEQ:Agreement:Four
EVI:Apparent:the considerations of Section VI in order to remove the apparent
EVI:Principle:The principle of relativity requires that the law of the conservation
SEQ:Elegance:Ought
EVI:Reason:For this reason non-rigid reference-bodies are used, which are as a
EVI:Hold:these laws do not hold.
CON:Purposely
CON:Mississippi
EVI:Albert:Author: Albert Einstein
EVI:Note:part. We should expect, for instance, that the note emitted by an
EVI:Curves:it is possible to draw the _u_-curves and _v_-curves and to attach
EVI:Cartesian:is a logical generalisation of the Cartesian co-ordinate system. It is
EVI:Even:certainly regard everyone with disdain who should pronounce even the
SEQ:Property:Gravitational
SEQ:Fundamental:Nature
SEQ:Points:Correspond
SEQ:Same:Conditions
SEQ:Interpretation:Incomparably
SEQ:Along:Relatively
CON:Bachem
EVI:Based:distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
EVI:Reference:apart. We already know that it is necessary to have a body of reference
EVI:Covers:total he covers the distance _W = v + w_ relative to the embankment in
EVI:Such:compared with the velocity of light. We have experience of such rapid
SEQ:Lightning:Strokes
SEQ:Result:General
EVI:Calculation:of attraction into the calculation, we find that, according to this new
SEQ:Space:Coordinates
SEQ:Formulated:Following
EVI:Corporation:501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
EVI:Suffer:whole not only moving in any way whatsoever, but which also suffer
SEQ:Body:General
EVI:Magnet:medium. If, for instance, a magnet attracts a piece of iron, we cannot
EVI:Paid:receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
SEQ:Assigned:Many
EVI:System:co-ordinate system _K′_. In this connection the relation between the
SEQ:Immaterial:What
EVI:Correspondingly:occupant of the carriage experiences a correspondingly powerful jerk
SEQ:Signal:Transmitted
EVI:Classical:reference-bodies _K_ the law is not valid. Both in classical mechanics
EVI:Confirmed:confirmed during the solar eclipse of 29th May, 1919. (Cf. Appendix
CON:Farther
SEQ:Plain:Vanilla
SEQ:Emitted:Flashes
EVI:Agreement:agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
CON:Radii
SEQ:Must:Negative
EVI:Depend:this latter theory the velocity of light must always depend on the
REL:Test:Favour
EVI:Measuring:(here the length of the pole measured with the measuring-rod) instead
EVI:Major:According to the general theory of relativity, the major axis of the
SEQ:Exist:Accelerated
EVI:Calculated:the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
EVI:Sends:neither takes up nor sends out energy. Writing the expression for the
EVI:Density:If we are to have in the universe an average density of matter which
SEQ:Less:Natural
SEQ:Copy:Access
SEQ:Reach:Cloud
SEQ:Flat:Implements
EVI:Full:Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
SEQ:Surface:Sphere
EVI:Largest:structure the largest possible logical unity. The practice, for
SEQ:Considerations:Based
EVI:Marble:four of these little rods on the marble slab so that they constitute a
EVI:Behaviour:behaviour of measuring-rods and clocks and also of freely-moving
SEQ:Surface:Gauss
EVI:Reference:body of reference, we stated nothing more than the encounters of this
SEQ:Principle:Experimental
EVI:World:Similarly, the world of physical phenomena which was briefly called
SEQ:Clear:Definition
EVI:Seconds:Let us now consider a seconds-clock which is permanently situated at
SEQ:Existence:Whereas
EVI:Phenomena:system devoid of rotation, then natural phenomena run their course with
EVI:Habit:If, in pursuance of our habit of thought, we now supplement the
SEQ:Exists:Chest
SEQ:Stated:What
EVI:Perforce:purely formal addition to our knowledge, the theory perforce gained
SEQ:Further:Opportunities
EVI:Generalisation:combination and generalisation of the hypotheses, formerly independent
EVI:Access:redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
EVI:Time:Moreover, according to this equation the time difference Δ_t′_ of two
SEQ:Those:Three
EVI:Best:best plan would be to assign the distance one to two points on the
SEQ:Body:Also
EVI:Federal:Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification
EVI:Light:velocity of light _c_. The velocity must therefore always remain less
EVI:Carriage:“space.” I stand at the window of a railway carriage which is
EVI:Fact:would be due to the fact that the carriage _K_ would be in motion
EVI:Space:We are acquainted with space-time domains which behave (approximately)
SEQ:Cannot:Solicit
CON:Range
EVI:License:will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
EVI:Demands:the demands of the (special) theory of relativity assume mathematical
EVI:Constant:with the Newtonian constant of gravitation.
EVI:Adjacent:amount are assigned to adjacent points. The Gaussian coordinate system
EVI:Gaussian:the Gaussian co-ordinates _u_ = 3, _v_ = 1. Two neighbouring points _P_
EVI:Motions:supplies us with the actual motions of the heavenly bodies with a
EVI:Fields:_i.e._ domains in which gravitational fields are absent. If we now
SEQ:Them:Latter
EVI:Year:year, the earth cannot be at rest relative to the hypothetical system
EVI:Many:array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
EVI:Even:density of matter to be constant everywhere, even to infinity, without
SEQ:These:Four
EVI:Propositions:definite ideas, and from certain simple propositions (axioms) which, in
EVI:Same:clocks has by no means the same degree of plausibility as in the
SEQ:Truth:Axioms
CON:Namely
SEQ:Whole:Sequence
SEQ:Stars:Found
EVI:Expect:part. We should expect, for instance, that the note emitted by an
CON:Errs
CON:Pedantic
EVI:Hold:reference-body _K_, we then find that they do not hold for a
CON:Limiting
SEQ:Both:Classical
SEQ:Relative:Surface
SEQ:Rate:Standpoint
EVI:Uniform:motion continue permanently in uniform rectilinear motion. As
SEQ:Specification:Deals
EVI:Being:reference to the circular disc _K′_, these definitions being based on
SEQ:Time:Leverrier
EVI:Plays:“simultaneous” plays a part. The concept does not exist for the
CON:Around
SEQ:Small:Amount
EVI:Limitation:consider the extent of its limitation.
SEQ:After:Generalisation
EVI:Hardly:hardly be doubted from a theoretical point of view), leads to an origin
EVI:Object:[1] It follows that a natural object is associated also with a
EVI:Satisfied:long as this requirement is not satisfied, I allow myself to be
SEQ:Only:Base
EVI:State:[15] The objection is of importance more especially when the state of
SEQ:Follows:Natural
EVI:General:general theory of relativity, this does not disturb him; he is quite in
SEQ:Material:Behave
EVI:Knew:only I knew that the light by means of which the observer at _M_
CON:Fact
SEQ:Water:Notice
EVI:Instance:part. We should expect, for instance, that the note emitted by an
CON:Loose
EVI:Incompatible:incompatible with the most natural definition of simultaneity; if we
CON:Surprising
SEQ:Constant:Gravitation
EVI:What:derivation of laws, and—what is incomparably more important—it has
EVI:Inertia:an effect of inertia (centrifugal force) by an observer who was at rest
SEQ:Length:Unit
EVI:Laws:reference-body) the laws of nature were to be as simple as possible.
EVI:Second:Let us consider now a second two-dimensional existence, but this time
EVI:Attempts:physicists were devoted to attempts to detect the existence of an
REL:Systems:Values
EVI:Continuously:continuously from one point to a “neighbouring” one, and repeating this
EVI:Rigid:train will with a vantage view the train as a rigid reference-body
EVI:Project:from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
EVI:Simplified:has considerably simplified the theoretical structure, _i.e._ the
EVI:Case:is fulfilled in an actual case. We thus require a definition of
EVI:Writing:are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
SEQ:Evident:Later
EVI:Continuum:points of the continuum so that we have simply
EVI:Experiments:our rods in experiments analogous to the one described above, then our
EVI:Viii:determined by applying the definition of time given in Section VIII.
EVI:Each:each other. Here the Gaussian coordinates are simply Cartesian ones. It
SEQ:Four:Dimensional
EVI:Trademark:1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
SEQ:Circumstance:Leads
EVI:Description:The reader may think that such a description of the world would be
EVI:Equations:_i.e._ with the velocity _c_. According to the equations of the Lorentz
EVI:Foregoing:embankment _in each second_ of time. But, according to the foregoing
SEQ:Cause:Surprising
SEQ:Distribution:Electronic
SEQ:Stone:Takes
EVI:Basis:the basis of a logical process, the justification of which we feel
EVI:Quite:But speculations on the structure of the universe also move in quite
EVI:Space:Those space-time points (events) which satisfy (1) must also satisfy
SEQ:Half:Century
CON:Tally
EVI:Backwards:original velocity in the backwards direction is continuously reduced.”
EVI:Classical:Classical mechanics required to be modified before it could come into
EVI:These:In view of the resuIts of these considerations we are led to the
CON:Forwards
EVI:According:than 1, since, according to Section XII, moving bodies suffer a
EVI:Physical:how these magnitudes are to be regarded as results of physical
SEQ:Interval:Independently
EVI:Effect:an effect of inertia (centrifugal force) by an observer who was at rest
SEQ:Forth:Detail
EVI:First:By means of the first and fourth equations of the Galilei
EVI:Seeliger:astronomer Seeliger. If we ponder over the question as to how the
EVI:Those:LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
EVI:Euclidean:and replaced by another which does not assume the validity of Euclidean
SEQ:Move:Uniformly
REL:Confronted:Section
EVI:According:According to recent and most excellent measurements by Zeeman, the
EVI:Nature:the general laws of nature._”
EVI:Approximation:first approximation the Newtonian theory. Thus the latter theory is
EVI:Apparent:situated on a straight line, if their apparent positions can be made to
EVI:Including:array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
CON:Group
SEQ:Time:According
SEQ:Extra:Galactic
SEQ:First:Straight
EVI:Transmitted:transmitted to us from a fixed star, as compared with the position of
SEQ:Your:Periodic
EVI:Indicate:table. These we designate as _u_-curves, and we indicate each of them
CON:Apparent
EVI:Mission:public support and donations to carry out its mission of
EVI:Basis:the basis of the general principle of relativity he is justified in
EVI:Considerably:has considerably simplified the theoretical structure, _i.e._ the
EVI:Mass:(Force) = (gravitational mass) x (intensity of the gravitational
EVI:Accelerated:the floor of the chest with an accelerated relative motion. The
SEQ:Entity:Providing
EVI:Disappears:(developed in Section VII) disappears.
SEQ:Initial:Velocity
SEQ:Does:Exist
SEQ:Judged:Accordance
EVI:Other:each other, the negative electrical masses constituting the electron
EVI:Distributed:distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
EVI:Only:existing trajectory (lit. “path-curve”[6], but only a trajectory
CON:Abandon
EVI:Points:two points _A′_ and _B′_ at a particular time t—judged from the
CON:Logical
CON:Traverses
EVI:Within:within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
EVI:Position:position in the continuum. Only when the continuum is a Euclidean one
EVI:Body:we require is reached by the completed rigid body.
SEQ:Respect:Hypothetical
EVI:Provided:are provided with numbers in a corresponding manner, and they may
CON:Accelerated
CON:Remarks
CON:Displacements
EVI:Reference:With reference to our little rods—defined as unit lengths—the marble
SEQ:Line:Observe
SEQ:Velocities:Derived
EVI:Does:“simultaneous” plays a part. The concept does not exist for the
EVI:Universe:THE POSSIBILITY OF A “FINITE” AND YET “UNBOUNDED” UNIVERSE
EVI:Both:must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
SEQ:Result:Experiment
SEQ:Validity:Curvature
EVI:Measuring:XXIII. Behaviour of Clocks and Measuring-Rods on a Rotating Body of Reference
EVI:Time:considerations, the time required by a particular occurrence with
EVI:Condition:This is a definite mathematical condition that the theory of relativity
SEQ:Dimensional:Continuum
CON:Calling
EVI:What:To what extent is the special theory of relativity supported by
EVI:Here:[4] It is not necessary here to investigate further the significance
SEQ:Some:Happy
EVI:Relation:co-ordinate system _K′_. In this connection the relation between the
SEQ:Contraction:Find
EVI:Represented:electromagnetic phenomena can be theoretically represented much more
EVI:Restricted:return later. If the principle of relativity (in the restricted sense)
EVI:Sense:ellipse rotates round the sun in the same sense as the orbital motion
EVI:Influences:after it has been corrected for the influences mentioned above, is not
SEQ:Rods:Perhaps
EVI:Body:thus: A body removed sufficiently far from other bodies continues in a
SEQ:Agreement:Before
EVI:System:this “infinitely dense” system covers the whole surface of the table.
CON:Translatory
SEQ:Encounters:Body
EVI:Manifests:colour of the light reaching us from them. The latter effect manifests
SEQ:Both:Lengths
EVI:Online:The Einstein Reference Archive is online at:
CON:Travel
EVI:Then:things, then we can characterise the development which is being
SEQ:Work:People
SEQ:Direct:Comparison
SEQ:Have:Seen
SEQ:Obviously:Case
SEQ:First:Latter
EVI:Decreases:grows from a minimum to a maximum, and then decreases again to a
REL:Construction:Extended
SEQ:Uniform:Translation
EVI:Also:also applicable to non-Euclidean continua, but only when, with respect
EVI:Other:the average everywhere the same. In other words: However far we might
EVI:Mentioned:In Section XXII it has been already mentioned that according to the
EVI:Taking:consideration. Up to the present we have only considered events taking
SEQ:Unattainable:Limiting
EVI:Arrive:arrive at a law of motion of the electron which does not agree with
EVI:Applicable:limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
CON:International
EVI:Have:the body of reference. But we have just seen that this assumption is
SEQ:Smaller:Value
EVI:Field:gravitational field is of a kind that would not be possible on Newton’s
EVI:Principle:self-evident). Our principle rather asserts what follows: If we
SEQ:Shall:Indicate
EVI:System:itself as reference-body (co-ordinate system). An observer in the train
EVI:Work:opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
EVI:Self:already mentioned, this is self-evident, but it must not be confused
EVI:Needs:significance of the statement is clear in itself and needs no further
EVI:Received:received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
SEQ:Observed:Front
EVI:Rods:constructions to be made with rigid rods _in the surface_ (similar to
SEQ:Known:Last
SEQ:Long:Before
SEQ:Containing:Part
EVI:Motion:only says something about the motion of the bodies, but it also
SEQ:Leads:Quite
SEQ:Only:Need
EVI:Transformation:identically satisfied by the transformation can be expressed thus:
SEQ:Respect:Given
EVI:Contraction:contraction being just sufficient to compensate for the difference in
EVI:Thoughtful:conscientiously thoughtful physicist into the greatest intellectual
SEQ:Then:Correspond
SEQ:Donations:Donors
SEQ:Have:Permanently
SEQ:Spite:Feel
SEQ:Surrounding:Gravitational
SEQ:Respect:Each
EVI:Equations:(“cosmological term of the field equations”).
SEQ:Different:Places
CON:Vision
SEQ:Field:Kind
EVI:Geometry:the possibility of the exact validity of Euclidean geometry in our
SEQ:Actually:Determined
SEQ:Later:Hubble
SEQ:Embankment:Above
EVI:Also:This expression may also be stated in the following form:
SEQ:Termed:Reference
SEQ:Nebulae:Milky
EVI:Thought:empirical data, the investigator rather develops a system of thought
SEQ:Term:Hitherto
SEQ:Earth:Surface
EVI:Subtle:appear to be called in question. In reality we must make a subtle
SEQ:Unfamiliar:Physics
EVI:Character:about the finite or infinite character of (three-dimensional) space,
SEQ:Motion:Before
EVI:Should:payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
EVI:Velocity:eccentricity, _c_ the velocity of light, and _T_ the period of
EVI:Electrostatics:for this reason electrostatics is overthrown by the field-equations of
SEQ:Radius:Until
EVI:Foundation:Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
SEQ:Universe:Considered
EVI:Specially:“specially favoured” (unique) co-ordinate system to occasion the
EVI:Gravitational:In gravitational fields there are no such things as rigid bodies with
SEQ:Attention:Elegance
EVI:Forth:1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
EVI:Influences:disturbing influences exerted on Mercury by the remaining planets, it
CON:Main
EVI:States:States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
EVI:Instance:for instance, impossible to choose a body of reference such that, as
CON:Continuously
EVI:Very:density of matter, although very variable in detail, is nevertheless on
SEQ:Remarkable:Property
EVI:Rotation:to a “rotation” of the co-ordinate system in the four-dimensional
EVI:Defect:high time that we remedy this defect; but I would mention at the
EVI:Application:as for instance by a powerful application of the brakes, then the
CON:Preference
REL:Defined:Detail
SEQ:Strokes:Clock
EVI:Also:Moreover, at this stage the definition of the space co-ordinates also
EVI:Sense:sense also a continuum; for to every event there are as many
EVI:Other:two “counter-points” are identical (indistinguishable from each other).
EVI:Number:Let us now imagine that a large number of little rods of equal length
EVI:Calculation:respect to the æther. It is found by calculation, however, that a
EVI:Rest:from K, the length of a unit measuring-rod which is at rest with
EVI:Density:density of matter, although very variable in detail, is nevertheless on
SEQ:Research:Transcribe
SEQ:Unlike:First
EVI:Stage:propositions, then at a later stage (in the general theory of
SEQ:Fundamental:Experiment
CON:Acquaintance
EVI:Since:since there are other things which are not influenced in a similar
EVI:Through:must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
EVI:General:EXACT FORMULATION OF THE GENERAL PRINCIPLE OF RELATIVITY
SEQ:Since:Equation
EVI:Commissioned:be commissioned to determine by observations whether in the actual case
SEQ:Have:Body
EVI:Light:for the reference-body _K′_. A light-signal is sent along the positive
SEQ:Such:Lines
EVI:What:XXI. In What Respects are the Foundations of Classical Mechanics and of the Special Theory of Relativity Unsatisfactory?
SEQ:Form:Alternate
EVI:Gauss:Gauss indicated the principles according to which we can treat the
SEQ:Along:Rails
EVI:Part:part. We should expect, for instance, that the note emitted by an
EVI:General:valuable heuristic aid in the search for general laws of nature. If a
EVI:Generalisation:is a logical generalisation of the Cartesian co-ordinate system. It is
EVI:Amounts:of arc per century. The uncertainty of the empirical result amounts to
EVI:Chest:discussed in the preceding section), the man in the chest will thus
EVI:Posted:version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
SEQ:Value:Than
SEQ:Then:Treated
EVI:Harmless:electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
EVI:Light:of light _in vacuo_ for rays of light of arbitrary direction, both for
EVI:Every:general, in every gravitational field, a clock will go more quickly or
SEQ:Computer:Codes
EVI:Claim:claim an unlimited domain of validity; its results hold only so long as
CON:Questions
CON:Sharing
EVI:Four:four-dimensional, space-time continuum. We called these “Galileian
EVI:Nature:transformation. Or in brief: General laws of nature are co-variant with
EVI:Particles:from other material particles continue to move uniformly in a straight
EVI:Being:both lengths being measured with the same rod, is, according to
SEQ:Then:Reason
SEQ:Never:Revealed
SEQ:Process:Only
SEQ:Reasons:Become
EVI:Interpreted:agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
CON:Concept
SEQ:Relativity:Enables
SEQ:Nature:Condition
EVI:Donations:including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
SEQ:Federal:Laws
EVI:Space:the properties in space of the gravitational fields themselves.
CON:More
CON:Nowhere
SEQ:Part:Concept
SEQ:Answer:Perfectly
SEQ:Ourselves:Compelled
EVI:Quasi:might fittingly be called a quasi-Euclidean universe. As regards its
EVI:Results:claim an unlimited domain of validity; its results hold only so long as
EVI:Light:theory of relativity, the law of the constancy of the velocity of light
EVI:Then:motion, then relative to _K′_ there exists a gravitational field which
EVI:Provided:with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
EVI:Ordinate:indeed every other process) to a rigid reference-body (co-ordinate
EVI:Also:only says something about the motion of the bodies, but it also
REL:Companion:Sirius
SEQ:Regards:Effect
EVI:Space:instance, that we know the space-time “course” for any natural process
SEQ:Body:Clocks
EVI:Obtain:(at rest). For this reason it is not possible to obtain a reasonable
EVI:Result:carriage—a result contradictory to the principle of relativity.
CON:Inquire
CON:Result
SEQ:Only:Assume
EVI:Earth:body (_e.g._ the earth) produces a field in its immediate neighbourhood
EVI:Relative:The velocity of propagation ot a ray of light relative to the carriage
EVI:Markup:Transcription/Markup: Brian Basgen
EVI:Result:result of an analysis of the physical conceptions of time and space, it
SEQ:Observation:Astronomy
EVI:Archive:Literary Archive Foundation.”
EVI:Call:railway line. Here the following method suggests itself. If we call
CON:Necessarily
EVI:Refund:• You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
EVI:Than:somewhat greater distance from the centre of the sun than corresponds
EVI:Place:light takes place according to this equation. We thus see that the
EVI:Energy:accordance with the theory of relativity the kinetic energy of a
CON:Hold
EVI:Correspond:and _P′_ on the surface then correspond to the co-ordinates
EVI:Sent:We suppose a light-signal sent out from the origin of _K_ at the time
EVI:Laws:idea of relativity has supplied the laws satisfied by the gravitational
EVI:Speculations:that one would get into bottomless speculations if one departed from
SEQ:Value:Belongs
EVI:Body:room of a home on our earth. If he releases a body which he previously
SEQ:Point:Present
EVI:Mechanics:clearly of all, and because of this objection he claimed that mechanics
EVI:Made:squares made up of rods, _i.e._ its volume (surface) is infinite. If
EVI:Arise:scarcely likely to arise as to its applicability in practice.
SEQ:Between:Stellar
EVI:Perceives:perceives the lightning flashes travels along the length _A_ → _M_ with
EVI:Enlightened:experience. On this point we are enlightened by a most important
CON:Governs
SEQ:Whatsoever:Regards
EVI:Remaining:ourselves compelled to admit, all remaining propositions are shown to
EVI:Respect:that the Galileian law holds with respect to it: A particle left to
EVI:Other:under the first pan but not under the other, I cease to be astonished,
EVI:Lightning:assertion that these two lightning flashes occurred simultaneously. If
EVI:Positions:events _A_ and _B_ also correspond to positions _A_ and _B_ on the
EVI:Manner:correct (“true”) when it has been derived in the recognised manner from
EVI:Matter:quasi-Euclidean universe the average density of matter would
EVI:Reference:is independent of the choice of the body of reference. We call the
SEQ:Interpreted:Make
EVI:Under:whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
EVI:Request:of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
SEQ:Emptiness:Stellar
SEQ:Actual:Knowledge
EVI:Meaning:itself, to which we cannot attach any meaning, but the motion with
EVI:Literary:Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
EVI:Following:London”[3] I arrive at the following result. The earth is the rigid
CON:Flying
SEQ:Small:Differences
EVI:Course:ray of light (and of course for every ray) with respect to _K_ and
EVI:Last:in comparison with the second, which last is alone considered in
EVI:Sense:sense one can say, according to Friedman, that the theory demands an
EVI:Disposal:disposal the means of measuring time. It would thus appear as though we
CON:Connection
EVI:Mathematicians:_continuum_. Thus it is that mathematicians long ago solved the formal
SEQ:Definitely:Established
EVI:Especially:[26] Especially since the next planet Venus has an orbit that is
SEQ:Origin:Proceed
SEQ:Refund:Received
EVI:Person:lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
EVI:Space:of the expression “coincidence in space.” This conception is
SEQ:Down:Euclidean
EVI:Lorentz:respect to Lorentz transformations.
EVI:Please:donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.
EVI:Accordance:rectilinear motion with respect to _K_ (in accordance with the law of
SEQ:Being:Something
SEQ:Body:Whose
SEQ:Thanks:Einstein
EVI:Remark:Let me add a final remark of a fundamental nature. The success of the
CON:Vertical
EVI:Relative:the floor of the chest with an accelerated relative motion. The
EVI:Expansion:expansion of space.
EVI:Natural:The four-dimensional mode of consideration of the “world” is natural on
EVI:Principle:propagation of light _in vacuo_ and the principle of relativity
SEQ:Ought:Appear
SEQ:Agree:Foundation
EVI:Made:slab, provided that the ends of one of our rods could be made to
EVI:Evident:previous section the answer is self-evident. In the first place we
CON:Reference
EVI:Seen:the sun, the star will be seen in the direction _D_2, _i.e._ at a
EVI:Motion:This equation expresses nothing else than the law of motion of the
SEQ:Field:Equations
CON:Done
SEQ:Copyright:Redistribution
EVI:Sense:(in the restricted sense).
EVI:Stimulus:_x_-axis, and this light-stimulus advances in accordance with the
SEQ:Since:Observer
EVI:Sense:lines in the sense of Euclidean geometry, and they are perpendicular to
SEQ:Inertia:Large
EVI:Reference:his own reference-body occupied by the stone at each tick of the clock
EVI:Gravitational:gravitational field _G_, which was derived from the Galileian special
EVI:Consideration:of measuring-rods, as a little consideration will show.
EVI:Payments:Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
SEQ:Relative:Both
SEQ:Then:Characterise
EVI:Adhered:the presentation. I adhered scrupulously to the precept of that
EVI:Parabola:(embankment) it describes a parabola. With the aid of this example it
EVI:Operations:means of purely theoretical operations (_i.e._ simply by calculation)
EVI:Anywhere:This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
SEQ:Convert:Distribute
CON:Disdainful
EVI:Aims:sins against the sacred spirit of lucidity were I to formulate the aims
EVI:Results:the validity of the results of the special theory of relativity
EVI:Jerk:carriage experiences a jerk forwards as a result of the application of
SEQ:Continually:Interfere
SEQ:Every:Kind
EVI:Detect:physicists were devoted to attempts to detect the existence of an
SEQ:Express:General
EVI:Embraces:But this point of view by no means embraces the whole of the actual
EVI:Then:view, then the following formula holds:
SEQ:Body:Since
EVI:Accuracy:fixed stars. This deduction, which can be tested with great accuracy,
SEQ:Introduction:Theory
SEQ:Further:Significance
SEQ:Bodies:Moving
SEQ:According:Newton
SEQ:Have:Required
SEQ:Committing:Fundamental
SEQ:Does:Chest
EVI:Fields:gravitation will be derivable from such gravitational fields of a
EVI:Euclidean:that the marble slab is a “Euclidean continuum.” This can be done in a
SEQ:Squares:Must
SEQ:Means:Very
SEQ:Section:Xvii
SEQ:Observation:Take
EVI:Other:the other. Both are half full of water. I notice that steam is being
EVI:Original:original velocity in the backwards direction is continuously reduced.”
SEQ:Case:Observe
EVI:Project:of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online
SEQ:Light:Acceptance
EVI:Must:Nevertheless we must now draw attention to the fact that a theory of
SEQ:Theory:Case
REL:Difficult:Find
SEQ:Determine:Event
EVI:Ordinate:of energy should hold not only with reference to a co-ordinate system
SEQ:Direction:Whatsoever
SEQ:Help:Produce
CON:Unlimited
SEQ:Physics:Conformable
SEQ:Experience:Experience
EVI:Psychological:material and a psychological nature aroused by the war, these societies
EVI:Larger:number π = 3.14 . . ., but a larger number,[19] whereas of course, for
EVI:Direction:organpipe placed with its axis parallel to the direction of travel
EVI:Rods:of measuring-rods, as a little consideration will show.
EVI:Transformation:I. Simple Derivation of the Lorentz Transformation (supplementary to section XI)
CON:Logically
SEQ:Then:Given
CON:Warranty
SEQ:Recently:Updated
EVI:Fair:despite the shortness of the book, a fair amount of patience and force
CON:Schwarzschild
SEQ:Confronted:Problem
EVI:Rigid:point on the non-rigid reference-body. These clocks satisfy only the
SEQ:Works:Collection
EVI:Signification:definitions for the signification of time- and space-data with
EVI:Does:classical mechanics. The first term _mc_2 does not contain the
SEQ:Xxiv:Contrast
REL:Foundation:Committed
EVI:Simple:railway carriage would be a system _K_, relative to which less simple
EVI:Indicated:amount indicated above, as compared with their apparent position in the
EVI:Imaginary:and for still greater velocities the square-root becomes imaginary.
SEQ:Liquid:Other
EVI:Perform:1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
SEQ:Influence:Resistance
EVI:Reach:reach the cloud.
EVI:System:is a logical generalisation of the Cartesian co-ordinate system. It is
EVI:Table:The surface of a marble table is spread out in front of me. I can get
SEQ:Took:Place
SEQ:Basis:Logical
EVI:Observer:of the train. If an observer sitting in the position _M′_ in the train
SEQ:Exact:Circle
SEQ:Discovery:Therefore
EVI:Registered:concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
SEQ:Shall:Examine
EVI:Consequence:seconds, _i.e._ a somewhat larger time. As a consequence of its motion
SEQ:Including:Legal
SEQ:Possible:Present
SEQ:Same:Fixed
EVI:Readings:one condition, that the “readings” which are observed simultaneously on
CON:Gravitational
SEQ:Differ:Line
EVI:More:_i.e._ a smaller value than π, the difference being the more
EVI:Justified:interpretation is quite justified also from a physical point of view.
SEQ:Does:Travel
EVI:Latter:contained in electrodynamics as a limiting case; the laws of the latter
SEQ:Conclude:Special
EVI:Gravitational:gravitational potential does not exist, then the general theory of
EVI:Assumptions:fundamental assumptions, the so-called axioms. We call such a system of
EVI:According:In the second place our result shows that, according to the general
EVI:Work:displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
EVI:Embankment:embankment, is uniform and in a straight line. If we were to observe
EVI:Definition:defined is fulfilled. That my definition satisfies this demand is
SEQ:Value:Then
SEQ:Reference:Accelerated
EVI:Pains:pains in his endeavour to present the main ideas in the simplest and
REL:Theory:Newton
CON:Addresses
EVI:Physicist:brilliant theoretical physicist L. Boltzmann, according to whom matters
EVI:Using:the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
SEQ:Distance:Associated
EVI:Speak:stars until we come to speak of the general theory of relativity. In
EVI:Agrees:left-hand side, then the left-hand side of (11_a_) agrees with the
SEQ:Through:Each
EVI:Three:specification of the lengths of the three perpendiculars or
EVI:Gutenberg:production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
SEQ:More:Less
EVI:Only:somewhat arbitrary one. We shall only mention that with its aid
CON:Thenceforward
EVI:Crommelin:astronomers (Eddington, Cottingham, Crommelin, Davidson), in order to
SEQ:Result:Have
EVI:Embankment:to the embankment. As a natural consequence, however, the following
EVI:Certain:Geometry sets out from certain conceptions such as “plane,” “point,”
SEQ:Second:Distance
SEQ:Simply:Calculation
SEQ:Both:Places
EVI:Must:reference to _K′_ must be exactly the same as the length, as judged
EVI:Part:is practically constant for a small part of the slab, and thus the
EVI:Negligence:fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
CON:Gravitation
SEQ:Neither:Empirical
EVI:Experience:experience, by making use of
EVI:Body:(2) The space-interval (distance) between two points of a rigid body is
EVI:Farther:state of motion. But before proceeding farther, it ought to be pointed
EVI:Time:with reference to the æther, this time _T′_ is different when the body
SEQ:Follows:What
SEQ:Discussion:Behaviour
EVI:Have:inexperienced in mathematics, but since it is not necessary to have a
EVI:Swarm:travel through space, we should find everywhere an attenuated swarm of
EVI:Choice:That is, by the afore-mentioned choice of “coordinates,” (11_a_) [see
EVI:Recognised:Before the advent of relativity, physics recognised two conservation
SEQ:Thinkable:Care
EVI:According:According also to the general theory of relativity, which differs of
SEQ:Fashion:Under
SEQ:Geometry:Ought
SEQ:Spared:Himself
SEQ:Become:Reconciled
SEQ:Briefly:Called
EVI:Conservation:laws of fundamental importance, namely, the law of the conservation of
SEQ:Transformation:Really
SEQ:Only:Places
EVI:Patience:outset, that this matter lays no small claims on the patience and on
EVI:Height:(_c_) We speak of the height of the cloud even when the pole which
SEQ:Coordinates:Permissible
EVI:Universe:radius until the “circumference of the universe” is reached, and that
SEQ:Recognition:Four
EVI:Places:the lightning must always strike the places _A_ and _B_ simultaneously,
EVI:Assumption:the velocity of motion of the body emitting the light. The assumption
EVI:Very:is available for their measurements. But if this part is very small
EVI:Unit:covers the distance _w_ in a unit of time—_measured from the
CON:Contracted
EVI:Identical:identical with _x, y, z, t_. It has already been set forth in detail
EVI:Original:Original publication: Methuen & Co Ltd,, 1924
EVI:What:some one were to ask you: “What, then, do you mean by the assertion
SEQ:Galactic:Line
EVI:Dimensional:_x, y, z_ = three-dimensional co-ordinates
EVI:Located:United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
CON:Library
SEQ:Known:Fundamental
CON:Satisfied
REL:Results:Measurements
EVI:Ends:slab, provided that the ends of one of our rods could be made to
EVI:Reference:this connection a Galileian reference-body serves as body of reference,
SEQ:Perihelion:Mercury
EVI:Side:squares. The arrangement is such, that each side of a square belongs to
SEQ:Conclude:Theory
EVI:Surface:points on this surface which are distinguishable from each other. But
SEQ:Values:Ordinate
SEQ:Spherical:Surface
EVI:Absorbs:_An atom absorbs or emits light of a frequency which is dependent on
EVI:Only:influenced only to an exceedingly small extent by masses even of the
EVI:Gutenberg:Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
EVI:Anywhere:which takes place anywhere can be localised with reference to this
SEQ:Train:Event
EVI:Separated:Two points of the _x′_-axis which are separated by the distance Δ_x′_ =
SEQ:Point:Relative
SEQ:Negative:Result
CON:Prime
CON:Decreases
SEQ:Engaging:Attention
SEQ:Official:Page
CON:Assertion
CON:Consequence
EVI:Convinced:As long as one was convinced that all natural phenomena were capable of
EVI:Definition:at a definition of simultaneity.”
EVI:Compared:standard measuring-rod (a rod which is short as compared with the
SEQ:Things:Asks
EVI:Project:number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
SEQ:Email:Newsletter
EVI:Happen:outside of this plane: that which they observe to happen to themselves
EVI:Velocity:comparable with a railway carriage travelling with a velocity of about
CON:Circle
EVI:Theories:several theories, which differ from one another to a considerable
SEQ:Corresponding:Particular
EVI:Rods:and their rods withal as the realisation of “distance”? They cannot do
EVI:Indemnity:1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
EVI:Spherical:spherical “world” and not on a Euclidean plane, for a small part of a
EVI:Reference:which have been formulated with reference to _K_, the magnitude and
EVI:Space:in the same form as the space co ordinates _x_1, _x_2, _x_3.
EVI:Other:_in vacuo_ does not contradict the principle of relativity? In other
EVI:Crystallised:special theory of relativity has crystallised out from the
SEQ:Tested:Observation
EVI:Respect:with respect to the body of reference. A similar difficulty presents
EVI:Attribute:(or in the special theory of relativity) to which I can attribute the
EVI:Time:Note: The fifth Appendix was added by Einstein at the time of the
CON:Saying
SEQ:Time:Character
EVI:Universe:the universe will be quasi-spherical. But it will be necessarily
CON:Final
SEQ:Required:Fundamental
EVI:Here:(here the length of the pole measured with the measuring-rod) instead
EVI:Bodies:bodies which are at rest relative to the disc, he regards as the effect
EVI:Considerations:by its dark neighbour. By means of similar considerations based on
SEQ:Machine:Readable
EVI:Clocks:two clocks arranged at rest in different places of a reference-body are
EVI:Magnitude:determines the magnitude of the tension of the rope is the _inertial
SEQ:Lies:Only
SEQ:Large:Number
EVI:States:do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
EVI:Experiment:means of which, in the present case, he can decide by experiment
SEQ:Designate:Great
SEQ:Resuits:These
SEQ:Particular:State
EVI:Have:[2] Here we have assumed that there is nothing left over _i.e._ that
SEQ:Towards:General
SEQ:Literary:Archive
EVI:Acceptance:The law of transmission of light, the acceptance of which is justified
EVI:Considerations:We were led to that conflict by the considerations of Section VI, which
SEQ:Have:Removed
SEQ:Being:Plane
CON:Actions
CON:Version
EVI:Physicists:necessary consequence. Prominent theoretical physicists were therefore
SEQ:Above:Kinetic
SEQ:Also:Ordinate
EVI:Particular:particular co-ordinates _x_1, _x_2, _x_3, _x_4, if in themselves these
EVI:Dimensional:MINKOWSKI’S FOUR-DIMENSIONAL SPACE (“WORLD”)
SEQ:Terms:Part
EVI:Regards:reference-body as regards the domain considered, and the results of the
SEQ:Against:Drift
CON:Customary
EVI:Problem:THE SOLUTION OF THE PROBLEM OF GRAVITATION ON THE BASIS OF THE GENERAL
SEQ:Reader:Than
EVI:Laws:in the comprehensive limitation which is imposed on the laws of nature
EVI:Constrained:regard the matter as quite settled, because I feel constrained to raise
SEQ:Holding:Three
EVI:Rest:the disc may regard his disc as a reference-body which is “at rest”; on
CON:Expanding
EVI:Years:freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
SEQ:Same:Result
EVI:Observer:an effect of inertia (centrifugal force) by an observer who was at rest
CON:Somewhat
SEQ:Show:Metrics
EVI:Phenomena:domain leads conclusively to a theory of electromagnetic phenomena, of
EVI:Minkowski:discovery of Minkowski, which was of importance for the formal
SEQ:Days:Receipt
EVI:Diagram:_T_ (see the accompanying diagram, Fig. 3) when the liquid above
EVI:Adams:spectrum was definitely established by Adams in 1924, by observations
EVI:Reference:positions (possessing names) on the rigid body of reference. In the
EVI:Three:If we desire to adhere to our “old-time” three-dimensional view of
SEQ:Corner:Then
EVI:Come:stars until we come to speak of the general theory of relativity. In
EVI:Magnet:be content to regard this as meaning that the magnet acts directly on
EVI:Indicated:indicated, we are also in a position to establish the distance between
CON:Correspondence
EVI:Number:existence in the fact that it correlates a large number of single
EVI:Teaches:Furthermore, the principle of relativity teaches us that, as judged
EVI:Claim:claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
SEQ:Psychological:Nature
EVI:Take:the chest. He must therefore take up this pressure by means of his legs
SEQ:General:Where
EVI:Einstein:ALBERT EINSTEIN REFERENCE ARCHIVE
SEQ:Shall:Assume
EVI:Redistribution:license, especially commercial redistribution.
EVI:Constant:us) begins pulling at this with a constant force. The chest together
EVI:Made:be arbitrary, although it was always tacitly made even before the
CON:Repulsions
SEQ:Disc:Then
EVI:Euclidean:belongs to a Euclidean continuum of three dimensions. If we imagine
EVI:Choice:bodies. By a suitable choice of units we can thus make this ratio equal
EVI:Each:This consists of three plane surfaces perpendicular to each other and
SEQ:Pedestrian:Observes
EVI:Format:other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
EVI:Rods:rods, and we cannot define Cartesian co-ordinates _in the surface_.
EVI:Actually:connection in which they actually originated. In the interest of
SEQ:Mathematical:Description
SEQ:Face:Each
SEQ:Thus:Known
EVI:Permission:posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
EVI:Manner:Place a metre-rod in the _x′_-axis of _K′_ in such a manner that one
EVI:Velocity:From this we conclude that in the theory of relativity the velocity _c_
CON:Governing
SEQ:Lengths:Being
EVI:Eclipse:reason why we must wait for a total eclipse is because at every other
EVI:Relativity:theory of relativity, the law of the constancy of the velocity of light
SEQ:Invalid:Another
EVI:Paid:Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
SEQ:Relativity:Requires
EVI:Course:the influence of the gravitational field on the course of all those
REL:Window:Holding
SEQ:Check:Laws
EVI:Equation:_W_, then this is given by the equation (A) or (B), according as the
SEQ:Relatively:Each
SEQ:Whom:Matters
EVI:Measuring:XII. The Behaviour of Measuring-Rods and Clocks in Motion
CON:Maintaining
SEQ:Fundamental:Property
EVI:Positions:positions of the stars on the eclipse-photograph ought to appear
EVI:Length:of the marble slab. When I say they are of equal length, I mean that
SEQ:Reports:Performances
SEQ:Between:These
REL:Copy:Distribute
SEQ:Existence:Deflection
SEQ:Very:Exactly
CON:Application
SEQ:Traverse:Path
SEQ:Charge:Distribute
EVI:Being:able to regard the geometry of their universe as being plane geometry
CON:Feature
EVI:Accelerated:From our consideration of the accelerated chest we see that a general
SEQ:Leave:Whole
EVI:Ordinate:“specially favoured” (unique) co-ordinate system to occasion the
SEQ:Neither:Mass
EVI:Special:transformations in the special sense and from purely spatial
SEQ:First:Measures
SEQ:Arranged:Rigidly
SEQ:Separate:Existence
EVI:Surface:definite value of _u_ belongs to every point on the surface of the
EVI:Only:its inertial mass, and thus according to Section XV only its energy is
SEQ:Decision:Reached
SEQ:Apparent:Positions
SEQ:Taking:Place
CON:Xxxii
EVI:Friedman:However, already in the ’twenties, the Russian mathematician Friedman
EVI:Description:In order to have a _complete_ description of the motion, we must
EVI:Four:four-dimensional “world.”
CON:Correspond
EVI:Discussion:accordance with the discussion contained in the preceding section, it
SEQ:Origin:Means
EVI:Bodies:But in addition to K, all bodies of reference _K′_ should be given
EVI:Work:or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
SEQ:Following:Sentence
EVI:Ourselves:so that they are at rest relative to it. We now ask ourselves whether
SEQ:Because:Theorem
SEQ:Bottomless:Speculations
CON:Detectable
EVI:Phenomena:electromagnetic phenomena can be theoretically represented much more
EVI:Measuring:measuring-rods and clocks is influenced by gravitational fields, _i.e._
SEQ:Laws:Supposed
EVI:Earth:year, the earth cannot be at rest relative to the hypothetical system
SEQ:Shuddering:When
REL:Theory:Itself
EVI:Well:material point of mass _m_ is no longer given by the well-known
SEQ:Angle:Described
EVI:Relativity:fundamental idea of the general principle of relativity: “_All Gaussian
EVI:Same:at the same time, then they are simultaneous.
SEQ:Foundation:Makes
EVI:Theory:extent, that no other theory than that of Maxwell and Lorentz has been
EVI:Project:to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
EVI:Bodies:these bodies of reference are to be regarded as Galileian
EVI:Diminishes:diminishes to zero. At first, the straight lines which radiate from the
SEQ:Printing:Book
SEQ:Phenomena:Have
SEQ:Order:Find
EVI:Still:for still further increasing values of _r_, the area gradually
SEQ:Numerically:Equal
EVI:Body:apart. We already know that it is necessary to have a body of reference
SEQ:Theory:Itself
EVI:Relative:conveys to us, every motion must be considered only as a relative
EVI:Hope:hope of success in such an attempt; Let us imagine ourselves
SEQ:Development:Science
EVI:Spherical:the universe will be quasi-spherical. But it will be necessarily
EVI:Second:relative to the embankment, in this second, the distance w being
CON:Variant
EVI:Less:generally accepted by physicists even if experiment had decided less
EVI:Relativity:general theory of relativity, it is perhaps advisable to make the facts
EVI:Respect:respect to Lorentz transformations.
CON:Sends
SEQ:Sense:Kinds
SEQ:Measuring:Time
SEQ:Outset:Matter
SEQ:When:Moving
CON:Attribute
EVI:Velocity:very long train travelling along the rails with the constant velocity v
EVI:Have:have never revealed such anisotropic properties in terrestrial physical
EVI:Theory:According to the general theory of relativity, the geometrical
EVI:Shall:following section we shall show to what extent this is actually the
SEQ:Extends:Infinity
SEQ:Approximation:Arrive
EVI:Measuring:surface by means of a square made up of measuring-rods. If the universe
SEQ:Copyright:Research
SEQ:Reference:Circular
SEQ:Being:More
EVI:Exceedingly:influenced only to an exceedingly small extent by masses even of the
EVI:First:In the first place, it can be compared with the reality. Although a
CON:Chased
EVI:Light:embankment) he is hastening towards the beam of light coming from _B_,
CON:Withheld
REL:Works:Protect
SEQ:Farther:Question
REL:Density:Matter
EVI:Traced:displacement of spectral lines be definitely traced to the
EVI:Axis:_x_-axis, and this light-stimulus advances in accordance with the
REL:Physics:Measurement
CON:Locating
SEQ:Possibility:Discovering
SEQ:Liability:Damages
SEQ:Times:Exceedingly
EVI:Rods:rods on the central region of the table expand, whereas those on the
EVI:True:hand, the principle of relativity holds true and that on the other hand
EVI:Perihelial:perihelial movement of the orbit of Mercury remained over, the amount
EVI:Reality:appear to be called in question. In reality we must make a subtle
SEQ:Your:Equipment
CON:Amounts
EVI:World:“world” by Minkowski is naturally four dimensional in the space-time
EVI:Rotation:system devoid of rotation, then natural phenomena run their course with
EVI:Idea:We are now in a position to formulate more exactly the idea of
EVI:Latter:heavenly body would be deviated towards the latter. For a ray of light
EVI:Periphery:heat the central part of the marble slab, but not the periphery, in
EVI:Total:reason why we must wait for a total eclipse is because at every other
EVI:Rates:rotating reference-body, go at rates which are dependent on the
SEQ:Should:Justified
SEQ:Substances:Consist
EVI:Still:direction, but that it would still be uniform and in a straight line.
SEQ:Consider:Neighbouring
EVI:Reach:mark off the distance _S_ time after time until we reach _B_. The
SEQ:Beauty:Removing
EVI:Rest:to be “at rest.”
EVI:Transmitted:Galileian reference-body _K_, such a ray of light is transmitted
EVI:Basis:broad basis for the theoretical presentation of all physical phenomena,
EVI:Matter:of treating time as an independent continuum. As a matter of fact,
CON:Desire
SEQ:What:Result
EVI:Full:does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
CON:Active
EVI:Rest:carriage) remains permanently at rest. With reference to it, however,
EVI:Trademark:TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
EVI:Traverse:indisputable. That light requires the same time to traverse the path
EVI:Excels:elliptical) excels in its simplicity, since all points on it are
EVI:Rays:and the light rays emitted by the flashes of lightning _A_ and _B_
EVI:Most:most intelligible form, and on the whole, in the sequence and
REL:Train:Thought
SEQ:Venture:Step
SEQ:Quasi:Spherical
CON:Like
EVI:Being:rope attached, and now a “being” (what kind of a being is immaterial to
SEQ:Satisfy:Only
EVI:Construction:rate_ if they are of identical construction. Stated more exactly: When
SEQ:Similar:Manner
EVI:Travelling:our example of the railway carriage supposed to be travelling
SEQ:Places:Times
EVI:Laws:valuable heuristic aid in the search for general laws of nature. If a
EVI:Other:existence of the effect almost beyond doubt, while other investigators,
EVI:Whole:PART III: CONSIDERATIONS ON THE UNIVERSE AS A WHOLE
EVI:Theory:theory of relativity has led is concerned with the conception of mass.
EVI:Measured:both lengths being measured with the same rod, is, according to
SEQ:Nature:Simple
EVI:Time:interpretation of space- and time-data in the case of the general
SEQ:Most:Natural
SEQ:Here:Present
EVI:Closed:It follows from what has been said, that closed spaces without limits
SEQ:Evident:Classical
EVI:According:_i.e._ with the velocity _c_. According to the equations of the Lorentz
SEQ:Other:Medium
SEQ:Stars:Until
CON:Again
SEQ:Velocity:Traverses
EVI:Question:experience? This question is not easily answered for the reason already
SEQ:Words:What
EVI:Part:_c_ plays the part of an unattainable limiting velocity.
EVI:Special:It is clear from our previous considerations that the (special) theory
REL:Right:Replacement
EVI:Over:is hovering over Trafalgar Square, then we can determine its position
SEQ:Medium:Computer
EVI:Validity:to doubt the validity of this principle of relativity. But in view of
SEQ:Points:Being
SEQ:Course:Depend
EVI:Correspond:continuum. In the same way, any such lines in our continuum correspond
SEQ:Consideration:Lies
EVI:Volunteers:Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
EVI:Acquaintance:In your schooldays most of you who read this book made acquaintance
SEQ:Necessarily:Scattered
CON:Briefly
CON:Inherent
EVI:Straight:then it will also be moving uniformly and in a straight line relative
SEQ:Comparable:Railway
EVI:Postulate:XX. The Equality of Inertial and Gravitational Mass as an Argument for the General Postulate of Relativity
SEQ:Produced:Terrestrial
REL:Correctly:Represent
EVI:Individual:the axioms. The question of “truth” of the individual geometrical
SEQ:Mollusc:Used
SEQ:Discussion:Almost
EVI:Ebooks:Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
EVI:Have:so far, that up to the present we have been able to find only a few
CON:Viii
SEQ:Forms:Basis
EVI:Country:country other than the United States.
REL:State:Rest
SEQ:Electron:Held
SEQ:Shortened:Shortened
CON:Plays
CON:Immediate
EVI:Square:is hovering over Trafalgar Square, then we can determine its position
EVI:Exact:general principle of relativity given in Section XVIII by an exact
EVI:Appears:In view of this dilemma there appears to be nothing else for it than to
EVI:Here:strives to move towards the magnet. We shall not discuss here the
REL:Experiment:Fizeau
CON:Bound
REL:Theory:Development
EVI:Negative:transmitted along the negative _x_-axis, we obtain the condition
EVI:Less:associated with the geometrical ideas. In less exact terms we can
SEQ:Property:Points
EVI:Further:of thought. We are accustomed further to regard three points as being
EVI:Means:two points on a rigid body by means of measurements. For this purpose
EVI:Theory:the _special_ principle of relativity, or special theory of relativity.
EVI:Propagated:propagated curvilinearly in gravitational fields._ In two respects this
EVI:Particular:a gravitational field _G_ (of a particular kind). We learn the
SEQ:Rotating:Body
SEQ:Rods:Other
SEQ:Theory:Rather
EVI:Experience:XVI. Experience and the Special Theory of Relativity
CON:Repel
SEQ:Spatially:Parallel
SEQ:Line:Continue
EVI:Basis:THE SOLUTION OF THE PROBLEM OF GRAVITATION ON THE BASIS OF THE GENERAL
SEQ:Lodged:Deeply
EVI:Regarded:comparison. Regarded in this way, the development of a science bears
EVI:Rotating:BEHAVIOUR OF CLOCKS AND MEASURING-RODS ON A ROTATING BODY OF REFERENCE
SEQ:Depends:Time
EVI:Other:other corner of a square with reference to this origin by means of two
EVI:Rule:in this sense we understand its validity for a construction with rule
EVI:Case:two theories differ from each other. As an example, a case of general
EVI:Have:consideration. Up to the present we have only considered events taking
EVI:Thus:flash _A_. We thus arrive at the important result:
SEQ:Almost:Exact
SEQ:Redistributing:Project
EVI:Section:here apply the consideration of the previous section, since the ray of
EVI:Throughout:[19] Throughout this consideration we have to use the Galileian
EVI:Simultaneous:different places in such a manner that, if _A_ is simultaneous with
EVI:Ordinate:replace the usual time co-ordinate t by an imaginary magnitude
SEQ:Difficulty:Presents
CON:Whereas
EVI:Referred:referred, supplemented in such a manner that the object whose position
EVI:Vain:Analogously, I seek in vain for a real something in classical mechanics
SEQ:Measure:Area
EVI:Carefully:once more analyse its meaning carefully.
EVI:Being:distance without our proceeding being in the highest measure grossly
EVI:Linked:will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
SEQ:Constant:Uniting
EVI:Requirements:States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
EVI:Conveys:conveys to us, every motion must be considered only as a relative
EVI:Little:little rod, which has been used as a “distance” (line-interval). By
EVI:Interpreted:propositions interpreted in this way, since we are justified in asking
SEQ:Equality:Inertial
EVI:Table:_v_-curves, and thus also relative to the surface of the table. For the
CON:Conditions
SEQ:Common:Centre
CON:Scrupulously
SEQ:Namely:Three
EVI:Obtain:require to obtain a generalisation of the law as found above. This can
EVI:Lorentz:SIMPLE DERIVATION OF THE LORENTZ TRANSFORMATION
SEQ:Exists:Respect
EVI:Permission:States without permission and without paying copyright
SEQ:Must:Perforce
SEQ:Escape:Test
SEQ:Book:Intended
EVI:Events:“neighbouring” events (realised or at least thinkable) as we care to
EVI:Sufficiently:itself and sufficiently far removed from all other particles moves
EVI:Continuum:the marble slab constitute a Euclidean continuum with respect to the
EVI:Motion:contraction of the body in the direction of motion, the amount of
EVI:Represents:where ω represents the angular velocity of rotation of the disc _K′_
EVI:Acceleration:But how does the man in the chest regard the Process? The acceleration
EVI:Corresponds:situation depicted here corresponds to the one brought about by the
CON:Pglaf
EVI:Reference:exists with reference to it. This is by no means true for all
EVI:Gutenberg:To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
EVI:Derivation:transformation are valid. These last form the basis for the derivation
SEQ:Carriage:Introduce
EVI:Also:line or continue in a state of rest. We have also repeatedly emphasised
SEQ:Three:Squares
SEQ:Event:Manner
EVI:Theory:According to the theory of relativity, action at a distance with the
SEQ:Logical:Circle
EVI:Conditions:conditions required by the fundamental law of Galilei. It is then
SEQ:Copy:Give
SEQ:Negligence:Strict
EVI:Gutenberg:and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
EVI:Place:question should take place—as judged from _K′_—in accordance with the
SEQ:Them:Such
EVI:Uniform:which possess certain unique states of motion, and which are in uniform
EVI:Number:an infinitely large number to be drawn, all of which correspond to real
SEQ:Previous:Section
CON:Motionless
CON:Strings
SEQ:Work:Without
EVI:Appear:considered, and for this reason it would appear to be impossible that
EVI:Theory:of the method used in discussing the special theory, and as long as the
SEQ:Different:Behaviour
EVI:Shall:shall leave it here at present, and revert to it only towards the end
SEQ:Correctly:Represent
EVI:Question:question, I shall make use of a comparison.
EVI:Finiteness:of the inaccuracy involved by the finiteness of the velocity of
EVI:Based:based, in no way opposes the theory of relativity. Rather has the
SEQ:Experiences:Jerk
EVI:Call:dimensional space) of equal length in all directions. They will call
EVI:Realised:“neighbouring” events (realised or at least thinkable) as we care to
EVI:Process:Of course we must refer the process of the propagation of light (and
SEQ:Events:Reference
EVI:Special:A few years later Hubble showed, by a special investigation of the
SEQ:Justification:Incidental
SEQ:Particles:Sufficiently
EVI:Occasion:“specially favoured” (unique) co-ordinate system to occasion the
EVI:Neither:description of natural processes, neither of the reference bodies _K,
SEQ:Given:Value
EVI:Description:co-ordinates completely replaces the description with the aid of a body
CON:Rectilinearly
EVI:Permanently:For the origin of _K′_ we have permanently _x′_ = 0, and hence
SEQ:Customary:Physics
EVI:Stone:see the stone descend in a straight line. A pedestrian who observes the
EVI:Motion:forwards. The retarded motion is manifested in the mechanical behaviour
EVI:Lightning:Are two events (_e.g._ the two strokes of lightning _A_ and _B_) which
SEQ:What:Determines
EVI:Point:farther until he is fully convinced on this point.)
EVI:Such:gravitation will be derivable from such gravitational fields of a
SEQ:Towards:Less
CON:Money
CON:People
EVI:Relativity:of relativity, of which the fundamental ideas are developed in the
SEQ:Numbers:Similar
SEQ:Indistinguishable:Each
SEQ:Railway:Lines
EVI:Centrifugal:unit of mass against the centrifugal force in order to transport it
CON:Detected
SEQ:Parts:Considering
EVI:Standpoint:valid from the standpoint of an observer who is rotating with the disc.
EVI:Transformation:transformation (not only the Lorentz transformation) corresponds to the
SEQ:Statistical:Investigations
EVI:Respect:uniformly in a straight line with respect to a co-ordinate system _K_,
EVI:Donations:exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
EVI:Conscientiously:conscientiously thoughtful physicist into the greatest intellectual
EVI:Machine:freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
EVI:Later:theory, with which we shall deal later. In the following pages we shall
EVI:Proportional:proportional to the mass _m_. If, on the average, the mass density ρ0
CON:Mode
CON:Physicists
EVI:Undergone:undergone by the fundamental idea of the general theory of relativity
EVI:Respect:respect to _K_.
SEQ:Snapshots:Must
EVI:Have:electromagnetic phenomena, we have come to regard action at a distance
SEQ:Observer:Rest
SEQ:Within:Seconds
EVI:Appear:disposal the means of measuring time. It would thus appear as though we
EVI:Means:way. Even though by no means all gravitationial fields can be produced
SEQ:Calculate:Your
EVI:Principle:more inclined to reject the principle of relativity, in spite of the
EVI:Significance:significance of the statement is clear in itself and needs no further
EVI:Accordance:accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
SEQ:Amount:Patience
SEQ:Direct:Physical
EVI:Corresponds:somewhat greater distance from the centre of the sun than corresponds
SEQ:Continua:General
SEQ:Means:Similar
SEQ:Consider:Moment
EVI:Defined:four-dimensional continuum, are defined physically in a simple manner,
EVI:Follows:We can express this as follows: The magnitude
EVI:Close:This four-dimensional “world” bears a close similarity to the
EVI:Ingenious:of ingenious considerations an able meteorologist were to discover that
SEQ:Either:Requirements
EVI:Insurmountable:presents insurmountable difficulties. If the observer applies his
CON:Working
EVI:Slab:their own accord, then this is an especial favour of the marble slab
CON:Base
EVI:Distance:distance sun-planet exhibits periodic variations; but in this case the
EVI:Translation:Translated: Robert W. Lawson (Authorised translation)
EVI:Reference:of this corner with reference to the “Cartesian co-ordinate system”
SEQ:Dropped:Scene
EVI:Train:relation to the train, when we know the place and time of the event
SEQ:Inadequate:Remarks
SEQ:Point:Happening
EVI:Foundation:Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification
EVI:Piece:provided they do not use too small a piece of it. Starting from a
SEQ:Velocity:Limiting
SEQ:Exact:Grasp
SEQ:Section:Second
REL:Enough:Effect
EVI:Geometry:according to the rules of geometry; then, starting from _A_, we can
SEQ:Supplemented:Then
REL:Points:View
EVI:Purpose:easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
CON:Arrangement
EVI:Only:numbers. I only need state how many rods I must pass over when,
SEQ:Sirius:Effect
EVI:Paperwork:considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
CON:Branch
EVI:Fact:co-ordinates _x_1, _x_2, _x_3. It is due to this fact that, according
SEQ:Theoretical:Physicists
EVI:According:this law. On the contrary, we arrived at the result that according to
EVI:Facts:that he can without reluctance interpret the facts of the case as
EVI:Curves:a system of arbitrary curves (see Fig. 4) drawn on the surface of the
CON:Relative
CON:Unification
SEQ:Other:Electrodynamics
EVI:Body:whatever kind of body he may happen to use for the experiment._
SEQ:Fields:Themselves
EVI:Does:There does arise, however, a strange difficulty. The interpretation of
EVI:State:For example, we learn that a body which is in a state of uniform
SEQ:General:Theoretical
CON:Invalid
EVI:Refer:Certain considerations suggest that we should refer the same Galileian
SEQ:According:Newtonian
EVI:Itself:that suggests itself to us is surely this: As regards space (and time)
EVI:Replaced:out that this formulation must be replaced later by a more abstract
EVI:Imaginary:We see from (12) that the imaginary time co-ordinate _x_4, enters into
SEQ:Examination:Question
EVI:Easy:easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
EVI:Cannot:co-ordinates and times of events have not been defined, we cannot
EVI:Transformation:transformation we can express _x′_ and _t′_ in terms of _x_ and _t_,
SEQ:Major:Axis
SEQ:Second:Difficulty
SEQ:Carriage:Result
CON:Immaterial
EVI:Surfaces:justification in the fact that, of all closed surfaces, the sphere is
EVI:Being:the spherical universe. Our experience is far from being sufficient to
EVI:Replace:We are now in a position to replace the provisional formulation of the
SEQ:Correspond:Positions
EVI:Theory:fields it has not appreciably altered the predictions of theory, but it
SEQ:Distance:Infinite
CON:Equations
EVI:Heavenly:The frequency of an atom situated on the surface of a heavenly body
CON:Presentation
EVI:Motion:rectilinear motion with respect to _K_ (in accordance with the law of
EVI:Euclidean:spherical “world” and not on a Euclidean plane, for a small part of a
EVI:Purely:experience. Guided by purely formal points of view, H. A. Lorentz was
EVI:Neither:general neither the mass _M_ nor the radius _r_ are known.
SEQ:Time:Absolute
EVI:Obtain:Instead of the equation (A) we then obtain the equation
CON:Half
EVI:Obtain:the form of a series, we obtain
EVI:Neighbourhood:the neighbourhood of the sun are photographed during a solar eclipse.
SEQ:Should:Clearly
EVI:General:according to Section XXI the general theory of relativity cannot retain
EVI:Light:incompatibility of the law of propagation of light with the principle
EVI:Geometry:geometry for rigid bodies.[20] The reader will notice that the
EVI:Repeat:clearness, it appeared to me inevitable that I should repeat myself
EVI:Already:perceptible in terrestrial experiments. We have already remarked in
EVI:Resolve:then resolve themselves into propositions on the possible relative
EVI:Discovery:field equations of gravitation. Hubble’s discovery can, therefore, be
SEQ:Inquire:Distance
SEQ:Euclidean:Space
EVI:Confirmed:been confirmed with great precision in recent years.
SEQ:Sense:Purely
SEQ:Hardly:Able
EVI:Gutenberg:Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
EVI:Accented:ordinary and the accented magnitudes is given by the Lorentz
CON:Rotating
SEQ:Distances:Distance
SEQ:Train:Reference
EVI:Definite:definite value of _u_ belongs to every point on the surface of the
SEQ:Curved:Universe
EVI:Corner:two squares and each corner to four squares.
EVI:Ready:into the field equations of gravitation, if one was ready to drop
REL:Expressed:Short
SEQ:Hundredths:Millimetre
EVI:Theory:no avail in the general theory of relativity. The motion of clocks is
CON:Accustomed
SEQ:Influence:Electric
SEQ:Assume:Correctness
EVI:Respect:events with respect to _K′_ does not in general vanish, even when the
EVI:Sensible:the carriage is not sensible of its motion, and it is for this reason
SEQ:Motion:Stars
SEQ:Subject:Body
EVI:Show:The results of the last three sections show that the apparent
EVI:Fixed:fixed stars of approrimately the same kind and density.
EVI:Railway:than he will see that emitted from _A_. Observers who take the railway
EVI:Assumed:assumed only for these reference-bodies, but not for others (_e.g._
SEQ:Travel:Direction
EVI:Ordinates:co-ordinates and times of events have not been defined, we cannot
EVI:Fifth:Note: The fifth Appendix was added by Einstein at the time of the
EVI:Suspended:of the tension of the rope is the _gravitational mass_ of the suspended
EVI:Regularly:showed a red shift which increased regularly with the distance of the
EVI:Signal:for the reference-body _K′_. A light-signal is sent along the positive
EVI:Time:space-time variables _x, y, z, t_ of the original coordinate system
EVI:Space:other half by the geometrical modification (“curvature”) of space
EVI:Reference:might also interpret his experience thus: “My body of reference (the
EVI:Hold:attributed the more complicated laws which were supposed to hold
EVI:Almost:existence of the effect almost beyond doubt, while other investigators,
EVI:Email:subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
SEQ:Gained:Powerful
EVI:Result:equal to _c_. The same result is obtained for rays of light advancing
SEQ:Experiment:Decides
EVI:Measured:along the rails, the connecting line _AB_ should be measured up and an
EVI:Equations:equations of the same form when, by making use of the Lorentz
SEQ:Exactly:Rotating
EVI:Adjacent:adjacent clocks (in space) differ from each other by an indefinitely
EVI:Coincides:with which the event coincides in space.[4]
EVI:Change:enough to make themselves perceptible as a change in the inertial mass
SEQ:Recognises:Uniformity
SEQ:Laws:Already
SEQ:Supplementary:Section
EVI:Same:respect to _K′_ according to exactly the same general laws as with
SEQ:Helmholtz:These
REL:Amounts:About
EVI:Space:Euclidean three-dimensional space, then there exists for this surface
SEQ:Work:Other
SEQ:Ordinates:Opposed
EVI:Negative:that the answer to this question might be in the negative.
EVI:Form:which holds most accurately, can be expressed in a different form in
SEQ:Nature:Also
EVI:Galilei:This system of equations is often termed the “Galilei transformation.”
EVI:Consequence:experiences a contraction in the direction of motion in consequence of
EVI:Constancy:fulfilled if we are to maintain the law of the constancy of the
SEQ:Surfaces:Face
SEQ:Speculations:Departed
EVI:Following:following suggestion with which to test simultaneity. By measuring
EVI:Laid:of relativity would be laid in the dust. But in reality this is not the
CON:Face
EVI:Whole:the measurement gives a whole number. This difficulty is got over by
SEQ:Conservation:Energy
EVI:Though:reason nor known mechanical laws. Even though it is being accelerated
CON:Needs
EVI:Themselves:They can convince themselves of this on every part of their “world,”
SEQ:When:Making
EVI:Terms:check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
SEQ:Disagreement:Between
SEQ:Coincides:Space
SEQ:Process:Consequence
EVI:Theory:the theory of relativity. This theory was of a purely electrodynamical
EVI:Point:the velocity of another point of _K′_ relative to _K_, or the velocity
SEQ:Concept:Trademark
EVI:Experiment:not in the least diminish the conclusiveness of the experiment as a
SEQ:Possible:Clearness
SEQ:Gaussian:Coordinate
SEQ:Square:Possible
SEQ:Being:Unimportant
SEQ:Neighbourhood:Thus
EVI:Indeed:justification for this incidental conception, which is indeed a
EVI:Light:assumption, which, in the light of a strict consideration, appears to
CON:Imperfections
EVI:Note:the present time (1920; see[Note], p. 48), owing to the fact that the
SEQ:Also:Govern
EVI:Left:left-hand side, then the left-hand side of (11_a_) agrees with the
EVI:Regarded:how these magnitudes are to be regarded as results of physical
SEQ:Physicists:Devoted
EVI:Respect:stationary with respect to the fixed stars, but that it rotates
EVI:Circle:every fixed star describes a circle of immense radius in the course of
SEQ:Simplified:Theoretical
EVI:Mirrors:together with the mirrors, be moving relatively to the æther. And yet
EVI:Classical:IN WHAT RESPECTS ARE THE FOUNDATIONS OF CLASSICAL MECHANICS AND OF THE
REL:Considerations:Section
SEQ:Shortening:Length
SEQ:Surface:Beings
SEQ:Thus:Reduced
EVI:Beginning:end (the beginning) coincides with the point _x′_ = 0 whilst the other
EVI:Same:time difference Δ_t_ of the same events with reference to _K_ vanishes.
EVI:Solid:solid bodies. In every such framework we imagine three surfaces
CON:Organized
EVI:Have:we have just written down does not hold in reality. For the time being,
SEQ:Important:Deductions
CON:Constructions
CON:Implements
SEQ:Sitting:Eccentrically
SEQ:Facts:Case
EVI:More:body of reference, we stated nothing more than the encounters of this
EVI:Body:Up to now our considerations have been referred to a particular body of
EVI:Take:than he will see that emitted from _A_. Observers who take the railway
EVI:Presence:a specific illustration in Section XXIII, we found that the presence of
EVI:Reference:refer such a domain to a reference-body _K′_ possessing any kind of
EVI:Rates:identical construction will go at different rates when situated at
EVI:Return:In order to attain the greatest possible clearness, let us return to
SEQ:Photographs:Obtained
SEQ:Time:Space
EVI:Nature:(_i.e._ “really”)with respect to _K0_. In the general laws of nature
EVI:Unfounded:however, that this anxiety is unfounded. Let us consider, for instance,
EVI:Applicable:also applicable to non-Euclidean continua, but only when, with respect
SEQ:Point:Draw
SEQ:Number:Individual
REL:Unit:Mass
SEQ:Body:Must
EVI:Euclidean:π exactly. This proves that the propositions of Euclidean geometry
SEQ:Particular:Ordinates
SEQ:Incidental:Conception
SEQ:Salt:Lake
SEQ:Conceptions:Time
EVI:Readers:fashion, so that readers unfamiliar with physics may not feel like the
EVI:Special:the special theory of relativity. In this connection we proceed in
EVI:Truth:the axioms. The question of “truth” of the individual geometrical
EVI:Stated:body of reference, we stated nothing more than the encounters of this
EVI:Velocities:expresses the theorem of the addition of velocities employed in
EVI:Found:general law of nature were to be found which did not satisfy this
EVI:Does:motion of the reference-body is of such a nature that it does not
SEQ:Refrain:Such
EVI:Considered:An elliptical universe can thus be considered to some extent as a
SEQ:Body:According
CON:Essential
EVI:Body:intensity of the action on a body dimishes according to a quite
CON:Universal
SEQ:Vacuo:Constitutes
EVI:Events:events with respect to _K′_ does not in general vanish, even when the
EVI:Finite:about the finite or infinite character of (three-dimensional) space,
SEQ:Performed:More
CON:Treated
EVI:Lorentz:classical mechanics; the Lorentz transformation is the deciding factor
EVI:Copyright:with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
CON:Ripe
CON:Based
EVI:Have:reference, which we have styled a “railway embankment.” We suppose a
SEQ:Correspond:Real
EVI:Brought:situation depicted here corresponds to the one brought about by the
EVI:Detour:detour in order to be able to apply the postulate of general relativity
EVI:Itself:by the methods of geometry, but that it is in itself entirely without
SEQ:Experiments:Circular
EVI:Assumptions:basis the tacit assumptions of the older mechanics as to the absolute
EVI:Committee:Joint Committee of the Royal and Royal Astronomical Societies, the
SEQ:Light:Travels
EVI:Clocks:contrary. It has been assumed that all these clocks _go at the same
EVI:Propositions:propositions interpreted in this way, since we are justified in asking
SEQ:Region:Table
EVI:Thus:is fulfilled in an actual case. We thus require a definition of
EVI:Small:small amount. This non-rigid reference-body, which might appropriately
EVI:More:from a Euclidean one, and this notion seems all the more probable,
EVI:Every:But if rods of every kind (_i.e._ of every material) were to behave _in
EVI:Straight:see the stone descend in a straight line. A pedestrian who observes the
EVI:Respect:_x_-axis with respect to _K_, then we should have found that the length
EVI:Point:value of _v_ belong to every point on the surface of the table. We call
EVI:Body:there exists a reference-body _K_, whose condition of motion is such
EVI:Dimensions:four or more dimensions. If, for instance, a continuum of four
EVI:Throwing:throwing it. Then, disregarding the influence of the air resistance, I
EVI:Chest:had in his land, the accelertion of the chest will no longer be
SEQ:Experiments:Analogous
EVI:Acceleration:If now, as we find from experience, the acceleration is to be
EVI:Events:magnitude _ds_ the “distance” apart of the two events or
CON:Deductible
CON:Start
EVI:Only:Minkowski, which was only vaguely indicated in Section XVII. In
CON:Load
EVI:Does:development of the theory of relativity, does not lie here. It is to be
SEQ:Misconception:Suggested
SEQ:Accelerated:Chest
EVI:Spherical:are conceivable. From amongst these, the spherical space (and the
EVI:Calls:to imagine—after the manner of Faraday—that the magnet always calls
CON:Measures
EVI:Straight:and “straight line,” with which we are able to associate more or less
EVI:Strokes:Are two events (_e.g._ the two strokes of lightning _A_ and _B_) which
EVI:Simultaneously:simultaneously for different colours during the eclipse of a fixed star
SEQ:Chest:Accelerated
EVI:After:attainable at the present time. After taking account of all the
SEQ:Charge:Ebook
EVI:More:formulation of natural laws. Our course was more on the following
SEQ:Expression:Kinetic
SEQ:Flash:Thus
REL:Motion:Fall
EVI:Such:observation during a total eclipse of the sun. At such times, these
REL:Conceptions:Time
EVI:Associate:way. With every point of the continuum, we associate arbitrarily four
SEQ:Invented:Method
EVI:Body:point with particular points of the reference-body. We can also
SEQ:Attached:Tension
EVI:Equivalent:unique in possessing the property that all points on it are equivalent.
EVI:Understand:conditions we understand by the “time” of an event the reading
EVI:Found:to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website
EVI:Still:order to find out the general law-of-field of gravitation we still
EVI:Distance:individual rods always represent the same distance, independently of
EVI:Development:development of the theory of relativity, does not lie here. It is to be
EVI:Archive:Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
SEQ:Moves:Towards
EVI:Every:relative to every “Galileian” system of co-ordinates. In contrast to
SEQ:Advisable:Make
EVI:Body:reference-body which is not being pulled with a rope.
SEQ:Provisional:Formulation
EVI:Itself:itself and sufficiently far removed from all other particles moves
EVI:Relation:with the radius _R_ of the “world-sphere.” By means of this relation
EVI:Parallel:chosen so that they are spatially parallel to those of _K_. It is also
EVI:Small:is practically constant for a small part of the slab, and thus the
SEQ:Form:When
SEQ:Also:Defective
SEQ:Transformation:Should
EVI:Above:are always simultaneous (in the sense of the above definition).
SEQ:Cartesian:Ordinates
SEQ:Between:Points
SEQ:Copy:Also
SEQ:Magnitudes:Regarded
SEQ:Prominently:Whenever
EVI:Helmholtz:treated in detail and with unsurpassable lucidity by Helmholtz and
SEQ:Beings:Dimensional
SEQ:When:Reference
EVI:Definition:itself when we attempt to apply our earlier definition of simultaneity
EVI:Forth:damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
EVI:Space:(finiteness) of space.
EVI:Planes:resulting when the motion is parallel to these planes. Although the
SEQ:Gaussian:Method
EVI:Electric:In contrast to electric and magnetic fields, the gravitational field
EVI:Theoretical:relativity. The development of theoretical physics shows, however, that
SEQ:Designated:Points
EVI:Rods:carried out by means of the rods _e.g._ the lattice construction,
SEQ:Have:Little
EVI:Transformation:accordance with the Lorentz transformation, the law of the transmission
SEQ:Find:Different
SEQ:Withhold:Reader
EVI:Another:the velocity of another point of _K′_ relative to _K_, or the velocity
CON:Older
SEQ:Treated:Detail
EVI:Able:able to regard the geometry of their universe as being plane geometry
CON:Staff
SEQ:Corresponds:Embankment
SEQ:Interpret:Behaviour
SEQ:Gravitation:Results
EVI:Unique:motion is physically unique. This result was interpreted physically by
EVI:Dimensional:to the method of Riemann of treating multi-dimensional, non-Euclidean
SEQ:Seconds:Century
EVI:Stars:stars and systems of stars takes considerably longer. It is in no way
SEQ:Consideration:Show
EVI:Obtained:orbital motion. The value obtained for this rotary movement of the
EVI:Consideration:velocity, and requires no consideration if we are only dealing with the
SEQ:Physical:Description
CON:Actually
EVI:Revealed:have never revealed such anisotropic properties in terrestrial physical
EVI:Newtonian:is produced by the Newtonian field of attraction of the sun, and the
EVI:Distance:for the measurement of a distance, with respect to which body the
EVI:Axis:organpipe placed with its axis parallel to the direction of travel
SEQ:Course:Much
EVI:Done:that the marble slab is a “Euclidean continuum.” This can be done in a
EVI:Important:consider these important deductions, and we shall also discuss the
CON:Remains
EVI:Time:Let us consider now a second two-dimensional existence, but this time
EVI:Problem:problem”) has had an important development, which ought to be mentioned
SEQ:Note:Owing
EVI:Analytical:three-dimensional “space” of (Euclidean) analytical geometry. If we
EVI:Test:following suggestion with which to test simultaneity. By measuring
SEQ:Motion:Perihelion
SEQ:Refinement:Conception
EVI:Following:motion here taking place in the following two forms, both of which are
SEQ:Pivot:Previous
EVI:Little:and of the little rods, about which I can only be thankfully surprised.
EVI:Carriage:The velocity of propagation ot a ray of light relative to the carriage
SEQ:Nevertheless:Seconds
SEQ:Four:More
EVI:Railway:distance _w_ relative to the railway line in a time which is equal to
SEQ:Statement:Expressed
EVI:Standing:standing in the chest in exactly the same way as anyone stands in a
EVI:About:_supposition nor a hypothesis_ about the physical nature of light, but
CON:Limitations
CON:Detecting
EVI:Straight:measures the interval by marking off his measuring-rod in a straight
SEQ:Transformation:Follows
CON:Curved
SEQ:Favour:Marble
EVI:Time:relation to the train, when we know the place and time of the event
CON:Society
SEQ:Much:More
EVI:Justified:and to the co-ordinate system. Should we be justified in saying that
EVI:Conclusion:come to the conclusion that he and the chest are in a gravitational
EVI:Distance:X. On the Relativity of the Conception of Distance
CON:Starting
SEQ:Considered:Equal
EVI:Some:1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
EVI:Interpretation:interpretation rests on the fundamental property of the gravitational
SEQ:Only:Possible
CON:Tested
SEQ:Then:Ratio
EVI:Straight:Under these conditions, the _u_-curves and _v_-curves are straight
EVI:Light:and the light rays emitted by the flashes of lightning _A_ and _B_
EVI:Railway:of Section XVIII. It is certainly true that the observer in the railway
SEQ:Proud:Certainty
SEQ:Chest:Resembling
EVI:Vacuo:in vacuo, which constitutes one of the two fundamental assumptions in
CON:Passes
EVI:Become:one, for reasons which will become evident at a later stage.
SEQ:Included:Ebook
SEQ:Theory:First
EVI:Electrodynamical:This, hypothesis, which is not justifiable by any electrodynamical
EVI:Likewise:gravitational to the inertial mass must likewise be the same for all
EVI:Respect:with respect to the accelerated reference-body _K′_ (chest). This
EVI:Part:License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
CON:Surface
EVI:Stars:stars do not move in a circle. A system of co-ordinates of which the
SEQ:Conclusion:Cannot
EVI:Structure:with more respect than love—the magnificent structure, on the lofty
SEQ:Assign:Distance
SEQ:Convenience:Constants
SEQ:Accuracy:Necessary
SEQ:Accordance:Discussion
EVI:Chosen:for a suitably chosen co-ordinate system, the velocities of the stars
EVI:Latter:latter is in motion with reference to other bodies or not. The velocity
REL:Sense:Doppler
EVI:Better:arises as to which of these two theorems is the better in accord with
EVI:Prominently:prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
EVI:Thus:An elliptical universe can thus be considered to some extent as a
EVI:Repeatedly:line or continue in a state of rest. We have also repeatedly emphasised
CON:Limitation
SEQ:Michelson:Morley
SEQ:Supplies:Actual
EVI:Find:find after some consideration that the answer to this question is not
EVI:Ponder:astronomer Seeliger. If we ponder over the question as to how the
EVI:Invariable:are invariable with regard to time. No fairer destiny could be allotted
SEQ:Thus:Free
SEQ:Works:Compliance
CON:Editions
SEQ:Take:Marked
EVI:Fixed:stationary with respect to the fixed stars, but that it rotates
SEQ:Account:Properties
SEQ:Continuum:Means
EVI:When:transformed into a law of exactly the same form when, instead of the
CON:Emission
EVI:Clock:strokes of the clock is not one second, but
SEQ:Rods:Marble
EVI:Your:with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
SEQ:Shows:Curvature
CON:Kilometres
EVI:Laws:reason nor known mechanical laws. Even though it is being accelerated
EVI:Magnitude:neutralised by the tension of the rope; what determines the magnitude
EVI:Shortening:shortening in the direction of the motion. On the other hand, the
EVI:Impossible:so here it is impossible to build up a system (reference-body) from
EVI:Having:no pretence of having withheld from the reader difficulties which are
EVI:Means:vertical direction by means of a framework of rods, so that an event
EVI:Shows:formal properties, shows a pronounced relationship to the
EVI:Least:orbital plane, viz. between the circle of least and the circle of
EVI:Royalty:legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
CON:Archive
SEQ:Supplied:Laws
SEQ:Most:Attractive
CON:Liable
SEQ:Question:Shall
CON:Facility
EVI:Atom:will be somewhat less than the frequency of an atom of the same element
EVI:Brakes:as for instance by a powerful application of the brakes, then the
SEQ:Value:World
EVI:Surfaces:This consists of three plane surfaces perpendicular to each other and
SEQ:Developed:Section
SEQ:Suffering:Defects
EVI:Even:Even though classical mechanics does not supply us with a sufficiently
SEQ:Gives:Mollusc
SEQ:Concept:Does
EVI:Ought:relative to _K′_. Strictly speaking, such an æther-drift ought also to
EVI:Worldsphere:for all points of the “worldsphere”; in other words, the “world-sphere”
SEQ:Copy:Project
SEQ:Magnitude:Tension
SEQ:Reason:Electrostatics
EVI:Body:the same occurrence as judged from the embankment (as reference-body).
EVI:Marxists:Thanks to: Einstein Reference Archive (marxists.org)
SEQ:Through:Gravitational
CON:Describing
EVI:Habit:because by the word “true” we are eventually in the habit of
SEQ:Anisotropic:Properties
SEQ:Importance:Namely
EVI:Shall:relativity) we shall see that this “truth” is limited, and we shall
EVI:Generalisation:justified, every intellect which strives after generalisation must feel
CON:Receive
SEQ:Body:Place
SEQ:Relativity:Perhaps
EVI:Under:measuring-rods, clocks and material points under the influence of the
EVI:Mentioned:It may be mentioned that there is yet another kind of curved space:
EVI:Energy:is nothing else than the energy possessed by the body[12] before it
CON:Fundamental
SEQ:Experience:Making
CON:Regarding
EVI:Addition:check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
EVI:Alongside:I am standing in front of a gas range. Standing alongside of each other
EVI:Function:function of a straight line. In the manner indicated in Section II we
SEQ:Such:Seem
CON:Xxvi
EVI:Between:(1) The time-interval (time) between two events is independent of the
SEQ:Demands:Natural
CON:Supplies
EVI:Obtain:obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
EVI:Invalid:invalid for another, is _a priori_ not very probable.
EVI:Perhaps:following pages, would perhaps have got no farther than its long
SEQ:Must:Note
EVI:Light:_K′_). From this we conclude, _that, in general, rays of light are
SEQ:Uniform:Rectilinear
EVI:Principle:with the much more comprehensive statement called “the principle of
EVI:Range:I am standing in front of a gas range. Standing alongside of each other
SEQ:Influences:Exerted
SEQ:Clocks:Arranged
EVI:Course:number π = 3.14 . . ., but a larger number,[19] whereas of course, for
EVI:Relativity:basis of theory. The special theory of relativity has rendered the
CON:Internal
SEQ:Examine:What
CON:Ratio
EVI:Light:THE APPARENT INCOMPATIBILITY OF THE LAW OF PROPAGATION OF LIGHT WITH
SEQ:Produces:Motion
EVI:Might:might fittingly be called a quasi-Euclidean universe. As regards its
EVI:Project:prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
EVI:General:Finally, the general principle of relativity permits us to determine
SEQ:Ordinates:Expressed
EVI:Derived:The theory of gravitation derived in this way from the general
SEQ:Treated:Second
EVI:Rigid:of a metre. The rigid rod is thus shorter when in motion than when at
EVI:Does:of which does not differ sensibly from the above mentioned +43 seconds
SEQ:Mollusc:Certain
EVI:Ellipse:orbit of the planet an ellipse, which is fixed with reference to the
SEQ:Namely:Original
EVI:Later:the second considered. We shall see later that this result, which
EVI:Assumptions:condition, then at least one of the two fundamental assumptions of the
SEQ:Relativity:Euclidean
SEQ:Galileian:Systems
SEQ:Form:Space
SEQ:Nature:Hitherto
EVI:Special:*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK RELATIVITY: THE SPECIAL AND GENERAL THEORY ***
EVI:Used:requires that all these molluscs can be used as reference-bodies with
EVI:Theory:existence of the deflection of light demanded by theory was first
SEQ:Example:Obviously
EVI:When:In addition, a second photograph of the same stars is taken when the
EVI:Conclusions:Thus all our previous conclusions based on general relativity would
SEQ:Third:These
SEQ:Event:Essentially
SEQ:Provided:Latter
EVI:Cease:the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
REL:Mechanics:Newton
SEQ:Rods:Free
EVI:Body:Galileian domain relative to a Galileian body of reference _K_. By
EVI:Points:two points on a rigid body by means of measurements. For this purpose
EVI:Accord:arises as to which of these two theorems is the better in accord with
EVI:Motion:indicating that the carriage is at rest, but the embankment in motion.
SEQ:Present:Unsatisfactory
SEQ:Itself:Consider
EVI:Work:electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
SEQ:Rods:Connection
EVI:Special:of this, the special theory of relativity and with it the whole theory
EVI:Trademark:trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
EVI:Formulated:formulated—a law which not only explains the motion of the stars
EVI:Things:whether these propositions are satisfied for those real things we have
SEQ:Move:Circle
EVI:First:first principles, without making use of the fact that the surface
REL:Parallel:Those
SEQ:Astronomy:Makes
SEQ:Definition:Supplies
EVI:Photograph:In addition, a second photograph of the same stars is taken when the
EVI:Advance:the man were to stand still for a second, he would advance relative to
EVI:Against:brought forward against the general principle of relativity at the end
CON:Genesis
EVI:Terms:transformation we can express _x′_ and _t′_ in terms of _x_ and _t_,
EVI:Stone:travelling uniformly, and drop a stone on the embankment, without
SEQ:Point:Reference
EVI:Origin:choosing one corner of a square as “origin” I can characterise every
SEQ:Should:Refer
CON:Arranged
SEQ:Physicists:Doubt
EVI:Special:XVI. Experience and the Special Theory of Relativity
CON:Respects
EVI:Root:at the root of things, I dare not withhold it from the reader. We
SEQ:Then:Starting
EVI:During:man advance relative to the embankment during the process? The only
EVI:Form:alterations in form _ad lib._ during their motion. Clocks, for which
SEQ:Certain:Types
EVI:Distance:(2) The space-interval (distance) between two points of a rigid body is
EVI:Table:this “infinitely dense” system covers the whole surface of the table.
EVI:Method:principle according to the method which has already been explained for
EVI:Remedies:fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
CON:Void
CON:Amounted
SEQ:Electrodynamics:Optics
EVI:Point:way. With every point of the continuum, we associate arbitrarily four
SEQ:Fact:Cast
EVI:Along:[6] That is, a curve along which the body moves.
EVI:Russian:However, already in the ’twenties, the Russian mathematician Friedman
EVI:Investigate:[4] It is not necessary here to investigate further the significance
SEQ:Liability:Breach
SEQ:Cease:Astonished
EVI:Expresses:expresses the theorem of the addition of velocities employed in
SEQ:Britain:Most
EVI:Relative:ray of light possesses the velocity of transmission _c_ relative to the
EVI:Difficulty:have no further difficulty in understanding the methods leading to the
SEQ:Approaches:Infinity
EVI:Works:access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
SEQ:Detail:Unsurpassable
EVI:Another:in the transition from one such system to another.
EVI:Reference:of reference, without suffering from the defects of the latter mode of
EVI:Rigid:_i.e._ a rigid body the state of motion of which is so chosen that the
EVI:Advisable:general theory of relativity, it is perhaps advisable to make the facts
SEQ:What:Extent
EVI:Importance:laws of fundamental importance, namely, the law of the conservation of
CON:Delicacy
EVI:Dimensional:world in this sense as a four-dimensional continuum is due to the fact
CON:Mechanical
EVI:Associated:other are associated with neighbouring points “in space.”
EVI:Mechanical:the same mechanical laws hold relatively to the non-uniformly moving
EVI:Significance:significance, but only serve the purpose of numbering the points of the
EVI:Relativity:investigation, and to which the physics of pre-relativity days does not
SEQ:Equal:Rods
REL:Body:Rotating
EVI:Transmitted:transmitted according to the equation
EVI:Following:within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
EVI:Reasonable:1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
EVI:Mark:mark off the distance _S_ time after time until we reach _B_. The
SEQ:Theoretically:Influence
CON:Spread
SEQ:Refer:Four
SEQ:Things:Then
SEQ:Further:Regard
SEQ:Shall:Hardly
SEQ:Being:Weak
EVI:Perforce:will interpret the condition of things thus: “The rope must perforce
EVI:Continuum:speak of a “continuum,” and owing to the fact that there are three
SEQ:Describe:Position
CON:Expresses
SEQ:Rays:Emitted
EVI:Determines:neutralised by the tension of the rope; what determines the magnitude
EVI:Itself:obtained by measuring in the train itself. This circumstance leads us
EVI:Principle:considered as reference-body. The general principle of relativity
EVI:Slower:that the latter clock goes at a rate permanently slower than that of
EVI:Cloud:reaches the cloud has not been erected. By means of optical
REL:Development:Individual
EVI:Railway:transferred to our old friend the railway carriage, which is travelling
SEQ:Base:Considerations
CON:Capable
EVI:Completed:we require is reached by the completed rigid body.
SEQ:Consideration:Accelerated
SEQ:Definition:Time
EVI:Supply:Even though classical mechanics does not supply us with a sufficiently
EVI:Theory:according to Section XXI the general theory of relativity cannot retain
CON:Since
SEQ:Indeed:Very
EVI:Classical:observation. If we take our stand on the ground of classical mechanics,
EVI:Other:reference which are accelerated with respect to each other, and as a
CON:Devised
EVI:Assumption:Iines. In the first place, we started out from the assumption that
SEQ:Described:Above
SEQ:Matter:Everywhere
EVI:Substances:radioactive substances consist of negatively electrified particles
SEQ:Have:Received
EVI:Velocity:moving with the velocity _v_. Hence we can say: If a body takes up an
SEQ:Moving:Whatsoever
EVI:Transformation:The validity of the Lorentz transformation follows from this condition.
EVI:Choice:coincide for observation with one eye, under suitable choice of our
SEQ:Attach:Meaning
SEQ:Takes:Sends
CON:Patience
SEQ:Chest:Fixed
EVI:Point:Geometry sets out from certain conceptions such as “plane,” “point,”
EVI:Drift:motion of _K′_ against the æther (“æther-drift” relative to _K′_) were
SEQ:Donations:Carry
EVI:Assigned:To every point of a continuum are assigned as many numbers (Gaussian
EVI:Vacuum:the law of the transmission of light _in vacuo_ [in vacuum] must,
EVI:Chosen:systems, we should have chosen _one_ (_K0_) of a particular state of
SEQ:During:Heating
EVI:Unique:“specially favoured” (unique) co-ordinate system to occasion the
SEQ:More:Comprehensive
EVI:Change:The purpose of mechanics is to describe how bodies change their
EVI:Four:point, we thus have a (uni-dimensional) line in the four-dimensional
EVI:Choice:nature; the laws themselves must be quite independent of the choice of
SEQ:Relative:Briefly
EVI:Some:considered to some extent as a confirmation of the theory.
EVI:Sphere:proportional to ρ0_V_. For unit area of the surface of the sphere the
EVI:Means:means of which, in the present case, he can decide by experiment
EVI:Sense:are simultaneously (in the above sense) the same. Under these
SEQ:Associated:Electronic
EVI:General:deductions from the general theory of relativity which are capable of
SEQ:Easily:Shown
SEQ:Relativity:Action
EVI:Velocity:with a velocity _c_ = 300,000 km./sec. At all events we know with great
SEQ:Paragraph:Below
SEQ:Electron:Arrived
SEQ:Short:Compared
EVI:Observe:outside of this plane: that which they observe to happen to themselves
SEQ:Observer:Rotating
REL:Slovenliness:Treatment
EVI:Development:astronomy makes it appear likely that the development of individual
SEQ:Part:Played
SEQ:These:Events
EVI:Extended:themselves clearly until this construction is extended over a
SEQ:Natural:Phenomena
EVI:Clocks:encounters of the body with clocks, in conjunction with the observation
EVI:Then:differ from 360°. The line of the orbit would not then be a closed one
EVI:Thus:Thus, if we choose as time-variable the imaginary variable
SEQ:Magnet:Attracts
EVI:Compliance:DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state
EVI:Equations:the field equations, a term which was not required by the theory as
SEQ:Assume:Simple
SEQ:Phenomena:Connected
SEQ:Rods:Great
EVI:Paying:the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
EVI:Requirement:we can satisfy this requirement for our illustration in the following
SEQ:Body:When
EVI:Present:means of which, in the present case, he can decide by experiment
EVI:Mechanics:deductions from two theories in Newtonian mechanics on the one hand,
SEQ:Imagine:Regards
CON:Millimetre
SEQ:Holds:Respect
EVI:Part:PART I: THE SPECIAL THEORY OF RELATIVITY
CON:Plane
EVI:Negligibly:the solar system occupies only a negligibly small part of the spherical
SEQ:Hence:Also
EVI:Follows:in both cases. This can also be expressed as follows: For the physical
CON:Flat
EVI:Axis:_x_-axis. It satisfies the condition
EVI:Consider:Let us now consider a seconds-clock which is permanently situated at
REL:Space:Quite
CON:Include
SEQ:Stipulation:About
EVI:Possessing:refer such a domain to a reference-body _K′_ possessing any kind of
SEQ:Motion:Observed
EVI:Along:A light-signal, which is proceeding along the positive axis of _x_, is
EVI:Though:Even though classical mechanics does not supply us with a sufficiently
CON:Brakes
EVI:Rigid:electron (rigid connection in the sense of classical mechanics), we
SEQ:Electron:Does
SEQ:Mass:These
EVI:Continuum:four-dimensional, space-time continuum. We called these “Galileian
SEQ:Equations:Calculate
EVI:Later:We shall speak of its essential significance later.
SEQ:Themselves:Valid
SEQ:Without:Intervention
EVI:Value:transformation by substituting an infinitely large value for the
EVI:Fields:In contrast to electric and magnetic fields, the gravitational field
SEQ:Means:Legs
EVI:More:and “straight line,” with which we are able to associate more or less
SEQ:Borrowed:Unjustifiable
EVI:Euclidean:goes through two points. We can only say that Euclidean geometry deals
EVI:Long:following pages, would perhaps have got no farther than its long
EVI:When:of the marble slab. When I say they are of equal length, I mean that
SEQ:Satisfactory:Manner
EVI:General:here we have the general case, corresponding to the marble slab with
EVI:Gutenberg:Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
SEQ:Expanse:Universe
SEQ:Free:Distribution
EVI:Light:light is propagated in empty space. Every child at school knows, or
SEQ:Guided:Purely
REL:Condition:Transformation
CON:Tick
SEQ:These:Fundamental
SEQ:Coincidence:Events
EVI:Detailed:detailed examination of the question shows that the curvature of light
EVI:Derivable:“reference-body” and derivable from them; only _experience_ can decide
EVI:Full:1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
SEQ:Moving:Earth
SEQ:Relativity:Development
EVI:Theory:In point of fact, astronomers have found that the theory of Newton does
CON:Proximity
REL:Reader:Followed
EVI:Difference:which this difference should have been clearly detectable. But the
EVI:Photographs:making the adjustments required for the taking of the photographs, and
CON:Originated
SEQ:Virtue:Motion
SEQ:Another:Closed
SEQ:Speak:Height
REL:Possible:Imagine
SEQ:Amount:Displacement
SEQ:Generations:Come
SEQ:Means:Classical
SEQ:Staircase:Chased
EVI:Consideration:co-ordinates have no significance? More careful consideration shows,
SEQ:Compared:Position
EVI:Raven:yet it does not rotate in so doing). Let us imagine a raven flying
CON:Zero
EVI:Reference:condition of motion of the body of reference.
EVI:Revolution:revolution of the planet. Our result may also be stated as follows:
EVI:Unenforceability:unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
EVI:Just:travelling train. Just when the flashes (as judged from the embankment)
EVI:Valid:transformation are valid. These last form the basis for the derivation
EVI:Terms:we must then express _x′_ and _t′_ in terms of _x_ and _t_, making use
EVI:First:_x_ the value _ct_ in the first and fourth equations of the Lorentz
EVI:Body:t′_, of a new reference-body _K′_. According to the general theory of
SEQ:Mechanics:Required
SEQ:Gauss:Invented
EVI:Agreement:is strictly in agreement with observation.
EVI:Imagine:physicist), when I imagine that I am able to attach a meaning to the
EVI:Gutenberg:of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
EVI:Donate:visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.
SEQ:Correspond:More
EVI:Mass:where the “inertial mass” is a characteristic constant of the
SEQ:Infinite:Increasing
CON:Observer
SEQ:Perpendiculars:Determined
SEQ:Locating:Position
EVI:Propositions:Of course the conviction of the “truth” of geometrical propositions in
EVI:Observed:[22] First observed by Eddington and others in 1919. (Cf. Appendix
EVI:Section:Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
EVI:Than:less than 4π_r_2. With increasing values of _r, F_ increases from zero
SEQ:Since:Often
EVI:Gravitation:The theory of gravitation derived in this way from the general
REL:Theory:Expanding
SEQ:More:Evident
EVI:Something:_A priori_ it is quite clear that we must be able to learn something
CON:Structure
SEQ:Spacious:Chest
SEQ:Such:Finite
EVI:Cannot:that this conclusion cannot be maintained.
EVI:Clearness:clearness in no mean measure.
SEQ:Suppose:Clocks
SEQ:Dimensional:Mode
CON:Royalty
EVI:Copyright:1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
SEQ:Over:When
SEQ:Euclidean:Notion
EVI:Supposition:this supposition would only be possible if we already had at our
EVI:Included:of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online
EVI:Ordinate:planes” (“co-ordinate system”). A co-ordinate system _K_ then
EVI:First:inserting the values of these constants in (5), we obtain the first and
EVI:Project:of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
SEQ:Line:Orbit
CON:Made
SEQ:Mercury:Remained
EVI:Computer:other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
SEQ:Time:Pass
EVI:Apply:here apply the consideration of the previous section, since the ray of
EVI:Static:while the original “static” hypothesis of space yielded the closure
CON:Diminution
SEQ:Highest:Measure
SEQ:True:Only
EVI:Regarding:regarding _K_ as at rest with respect to a hypothetical æther of space.
CON:Methuen
CON:Similar
SEQ:Statement:Because
EVI:Velocities:for a suitably chosen co-ordinate system, the velocities of the stars
EVI:Description:etc., are equivalent for the description of natural phenomena
SEQ:Evidence:Time
EVI:Data:with the empirical data of astronomy, permit no decision to be reached
REL:Places:Times
EVI:Then:starting from the origin, I proceed towards the “right” and then
SEQ:Actual:Realisation
EVI:Curvature:curvature of its path when passing through a gravitational field, this
SEQ:While:Original
SEQ:Represent:Same
EVI:Flash:that the lightning flash _B_ took place earlier than the lightning
SEQ:Have:Experience
SEQ:Coordinates:Relative
EVI:Applies:deceived as a physicist (and of course the same applies if I am not a
SEQ:Results:Physics
EVI:Grant:this, we feel compelled at the present juncture to grant a kind of
EVI:General:GENERAL RESULTS OF THE THEORY
EVI:Geometrical:geometrical relationships in the surface, and thus pointed out the way
EVI:Clock:from the position of the clock on the rotating disc to the centre of
SEQ:Test:Favour
EVI:Earth:at the surface of the earth, the amount of this displacement being
EVI:Project:1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
EVI:Longer:path of the same ray of light is no longer a straight line when we
CON:Translator
EVI:Four:described by four numbers, namely, three space co-ordinates _x, y, z_,
SEQ:Even:Infinity
SEQ:Provided:Ends
EVI:Galileian:condition that, from amongst all possible Galileian co-ordinate
EVI:Premises:following conclusion from these premises, in conjunction with the
SEQ:Imposed:Copyright
SEQ:Mechanics:Small
SEQ:Surfaces:Constitute
EVI:Really:(_i.e._ “really”)with respect to _K0_. In the general laws of nature
EVI:Book:treated in the second part of this book.
EVI:Receiving:defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
EVI:Pans:attribute the different behaviour of the two pans.
EVI:Section:IV. The Structure of Space According to the General Theory of Relativity (supplementary to section XXXII)
SEQ:Indicating:Carriage
EVI:Arrived:behaviour of the electron. We arrived at a similar conclusion in
CON:Investigation
CON:Disturbing
SEQ:Does:Agree
SEQ:Limitations:Without
CON:Whatever
SEQ:Living:Planet
EVI:Confirmed:confirmed by experiment.
EVI:Refer:Of course we must refer the process of the propagation of light (and
SEQ:Another:Considerable
CON:Investigate
EVI:Working:present time (1920) astronomers are working with great zeal towards the
SEQ:Surprises:Construction
EVI:Notion:from a Euclidean one, and this notion seems all the more probable,
SEQ:Corrupt:Data
EVI:Works:distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
SEQ:Nature:These
EVI:Einstein:BY ALBERT EINSTEIN
SEQ:Expressed:Different
EVI:Suppose:We suppose a light-signal sent out from the origin of _K_ at the time
EVI:Hold:able to hold its own when tested by experience.
EVI:Axis:Since equation (8_a_) must hold for points on the _x_-axis, we thus
EVI:However:the law of motion is of any kind, however irregular, serve for the
SEQ:Address:Specified
CON:Hardly
EVI:Example:an example of a two-dimensional continuum. Just as it was there
SEQ:Surface:Heavenly
EVI:Things:this condition of things. He asks: “How does it come that certain
REL:Mentioned:Section
SEQ:Auxiliary:Hypothesis
EVI:Given:relative position of which in the four-dimensional continuum is given
SEQ:Bodies:Relative
EVI:Result:result is of great importance.
EVI:Tour:But the spherical-surface beings do not need to go on a world-tour in
EVI:Time:statement of time refers, there is no meaning in a statement of the
CON:Crucial
SEQ:Suggests:Itself
EVI:Result:This result admits of an experimental test by means of the photographic
EVI:Certain:this condition of things. He asks: “How does it come that certain
EVI:Ordinate:rectangular co-ordinate system by a new system with its axes pointing
EVI:Latter:to a second co-ordinate system _K′_ provided that the latter is
EVI:Fees:the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
EVI:Assume:we now assume that the relative distances between the electrical masses
EVI:Quite:regard the matter as quite settled, because I feel constrained to raise
EVI:Project:1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
EVI:Velocity:mentioned is flowing through the tube with a velocity _v_?
SEQ:Newton:Assumes
EVI:Further:for still further increasing values of _r_, the area gradually
EVI:Character:character of times and lengths, then instead of the above we should
EVI:These:co-ordinate systems.” For these systems, the four co-ordinates _x, y,
EVI:Small:are small compared with the velocity of light, we then obtain as a
EVI:Through:either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
CON:Light
CON:Variable
SEQ:Derivable:Galileian
SEQ:Order:Correctly
EVI:Characterise:choosing one corner of a square as “origin” I can characterise every
SEQ:Physically:Means
EVI:Possible:possible answer seems to result from the following consideration: If
EVI:Mechanics:SPACE AND TIME IN CLASSICAL MECHANICS
EVI:Lorentz:Lorentz and FitzGerald rescued the theory from this difficulty by
EVI:Where:Now φ = – _K (M/r)_, where _K_ is Newton’s constant of gravitation, and
EVI:Sense:I ask you whether there is sense in this statement, you will answer my
SEQ:Line:Along
EVI:Measuring:obtained by measuring in the train itself. This circumstance leads us
EVI:Develop:acceleration. If we develop the expression for the kinetic energy in
REL:Ocean:Space
SEQ:Excellent:Measurements
SEQ:Magnitudes:Results
SEQ:Unbounded:Universe
CON:Well
SEQ:Question:Connected
EVI:Limiting:on as a limiting case.
SEQ:Continue:State
EVI:Connection:co-ordinate system _K′_. In this connection the relation between the
EVI:Origin:_x′_2, _x′_3) with the same origin, then _x′_1, _x′_2, _x′_3, are
EVI:Slowly:the clock goes more slowly than when at rest. Here also the velocity
CON:Type
SEQ:These:Efforts
EVI:Theory:general theory of relativity, this does not disturb him; he is quite in
REL:Lightning:Struck
EVI:Longer:no longer achieved merely by a process of arrangement. Guided by
SEQ:Kind:Body
SEQ:Science:Untrue
SEQ:Free:Future
CON:Myself
EVI:Have:space involves the use of a rigid body to which such events have to be
EVI:Reference:carriage, as hold with reference to the carriage when at rest or in
EVI:Quasi:universe cannot be quasi-Euclidean. On the contrary, the results of
CON:Website
SEQ:Understand:Time
SEQ:Does:Here
SEQ:Complete:Becomes
CON:Complex
SEQ:Reality:Although
REL:Short:Wonderful
SEQ:Acquainted:Space
CON:Interval
EVI:Makes:almost an exact circle, which makes it more difficult to locate the
SEQ:Systematic:Pursuit
CON:Intellect
EVI:Determine:along the embankment. In the first place we require to determine the
SEQ:Other:Form
CON:Positive
SEQ:Section:Xxxii
SEQ:Compared:Dimensions
SEQ:Surmount:Serious
EVI:Interpret:transformation. We interpret this behaviour as the behaviour of
EVI:Theory:shows that also from the standpoint of the theory of relativity this
REL:Combination:Generalisation
SEQ:Space:First
SEQ:Thus:Appears
EVI:Gutenberg:the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
EVI:Between:we now assume that the relative distances between the electrical masses
EVI:Trademark:to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
EVI:Copyright:derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
EVI:Radius:with the radius _R_ of the “world-sphere.” By means of this relation
EVI:After:After further consideration you cast a somewhat disdainful glance at
REL:Last:Alone
EVI:Velocity:which the law of the constancy of the velocity of light in vacuo is a
EVI:Walking:numerically equal to the velocity with which he is walking. Thus in
EVI:Space:_K′_. For the relative orientation in space of the co-ordinate systems
EVI:Second:one second as judged from the embankment.
EVI:Gutenberg:number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
SEQ:Mathematicians:Long
SEQ:Proves:Propositions
EVI:Days:electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
EVI:Frequency:_An atom absorbs or emits light of a frequency which is dependent on
SEQ:Contain:Notice
SEQ:About:Mission
REL:Equality:Inertial
EVI:Plan:best plan would be to assign the distance one to two points on the
SEQ:Lead:Piece
EVI:Matter:formulated in a law, which is always valid, no matter how the
CON:Milky
EVI:Path:indisputable. That light requires the same time to traverse the path
EVI:Than:is clear that Gauss co-ordinates are nothing more than an association
SEQ:Deals:Only
SEQ:Correlates:Large
EVI:Archive:Thanks to: Einstein Reference Archive (marxists.org)
SEQ:Relativity:Section
EVI:Being:If we apply quite similar considerations to light rays which are being
EVI:Natural:the form of the natural extension of the special principle of
EVI:Maxwell:Maxwell-Lorentz theory of electromagnetic phenomena. Thus all facts of
SEQ:Used:Bodies
CON:Equal
SEQ:Planet:Round
EVI:Supplied:should be supplied with an arrangement (_e.g._ two mirrors inclined at
EVI:Galileian:uniformly in a straight line. With reference to K (Galileian
EVI:Objects:their measuring-rods and other objects fit exactly on this surface and
EVI:Reference:that this fundamental law can only be valid for bodies of reference _K_
CON:Characterise
SEQ:Field:Since
EVI:Very:such a nature that numerical values differing very slightly from each
EVI:Constitute:four of these little rods on the marble slab so that they constitute a
SEQ:Never:Before
EVI:Argument:THE EQUALITY OF INERTIAL AND GRAVITATIONAL MASS AS AN ARGUMENT FOR THE
SEQ:Increasing:Radius
EVI:Taken:relativity,” which we have taken as the basis of our investigations.
EVI:Assume:(non-rotating) system _K_ as reference-body, since we may only assume
CON:Assistance
SEQ:Have:Both
SEQ:Window:Holding
EVI:Carried:carried out by means of the rods _e.g._ the lattice construction,
SEQ:Section:Information
EVI:Field:that there was no such field for the co-ordinate system first chosen.
SEQ:Subject:System
EVI:Shown:In Section XXIII it has been shown that in a system _K′_ which is in
SEQ:Frequency:Dependent
SEQ:Fields:Disposal
EVI:Also:1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
SEQ:Masses:Constituting
EVI:Lightning:the places _A_ and _B_, where the lightning occurs, meet each other at
SEQ:Being:Tested
SEQ:Wonderful:Principle
EVI:Project:1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
SEQ:Circumference:Universe
EVI:Serves:this connection a Galileian reference-body serves as body of reference,
EVI:Electronic:Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
EVI:Expressions:expressions in _x, y, x, t_, in place of _x′, y′, x′, t′_, on the
SEQ:Answering:Moderate
EVI:General:gravitational potential does not exist, then the general theory of
EVI:Sense:exceedingly slowly in the plane of the orbit and in the sense of the
EVI:Same:stars as compared with the spectral lines of the same element produced
EVI:Copy:possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
EVI:Circle:almost an exact circle, which makes it more difficult to locate the
EVI:Meaning:astronomy are to maintain their clearness, the physical meaning of
CON:Several
EVI:Only:so far, that up to the present we have been able to find only a few
CON:Necessity
SEQ:Orbit:Planet
SEQ:Equal:Success
SEQ:Mercury:Must
CON:Discard
EVI:Motion:take part in the accelerated motion of the chest, and it transmits this
EVI:System:Cartesian system of co-ordinates.
EVI:Domain:works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
SEQ:Mass:Moving
EVI:Should:on the Galileian transformation we should not have obtained a
SEQ:Dimensional:Things
SEQ:More:Especially
CON:Comprehensibility
EVI:Original:with respect to the original reference-body _K_. But the observer on
SEQ:Transmitted:According
SEQ:Space:Together
SEQ:Mass:Increases
SEQ:Possessed:Body
SEQ:System:Clocks
SEQ:Each:Ascribed
SEQ:Emitted:Axis
SEQ:Sphere:Thus
SEQ:Faraday:Maxwell
EVI:Located:you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
EVI:Thus:necessarily be _nil_. Thus such a universe could not be inhabited by
EVI:Rigid:we require is reached by the completed rigid body.
SEQ:Continuum:Mean
SEQ:Piece:Wood
CON:Donation
EVI:Towards:years. If the displacement of spectral lines towards the red by the
EVI:Hook:gravitational field. just then, however, he discovers the hook in the
SEQ:Diminishes:More
CON:Send
EVI:Carriage:obvious consideration of Section VI. Namely, if the man in the carriage
EVI:Formal:formal properties, shows a pronounced relationship to the
SEQ:Cannot:Claim
CON:Emits
EVI:Newcomb:was found (Leverrier: 1859; and Newcomb: 1895) that an unexplained
EVI:Again:system). As such a system let us again choose our embankment. We shall
SEQ:Signal:Sent
SEQ:Known:Know
EVI:Sphere:sphere-beings the circumference of a circle first increases with the
REL:Unique:Possessing
EVI:Facts:Maxwell-Lorentz theory of electromagnetic phenomena. Thus all facts of
EVI:Point:the table, it is possible quite naturally to maintain the point of view
SEQ:Independent:State
EVI:Principle:SPECIAL AND GENERAL PRINCIPLE OF RELATIVITY
CON:Proud
EVI:Attracted:we see that the term _mc_2, which has hitherto attracted our attention,
SEQ:Publication:Methuen
SEQ:Difference:Same
EVI:Special:We start off again from quite special cases, which we have frequently
EVI:Goes:the clock goes more slowly than when at rest. Here also the velocity
SEQ:Unequivocally:Favour
EVI:Meaning:line also loses its meaning. We are therefore not in a position to
EVI:Foundation:PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
CON:Xxvii
EVI:License:immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
EVI:Result:Mercury it must amount to 43 seconds of arc per century, a result which
SEQ:Relativity:Connection
SEQ:Whole:World
SEQ:Selection:Struggle
EVI:Where:While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
EVI:These:The distance between these points A and B is then measured by repeated
SEQ:Finiteness:Velocity
EVI:Neighbouring:other are associated with neighbouring points “in space.”
EVI:Self:previous section the answer is self-evident. In the first place we
SEQ:Curves:Curves
EVI:Suggestion:possible. This incomplete suggestion will suffice for the present
SEQ:Expand:Whereas
EVI:Front:distant would be seen in the direction _D_1, as observed front the
SEQ:Deviations:Stars
SEQ:Move:Quite
EVI:Should:preference in this sense, and they should be exactly equivalent to _K_
CON:Instead
SEQ:Embankment:During
EVI:Axis:_x_-axis with respect to _K_, then we should have found that the length
CON:Satisfying
EVI:Points:represent the motions of the points in question have a particular
SEQ:However:Strange
SEQ:Them:Briefly
EVI:Theory:Relativity: The Special and General Theory
SEQ:Thus:Separated
SEQ:Acceleration:Curvature
SEQ:Also:Position
CON:Exceed
SEQ:Points:Farther
EVI:Value:value of _v_ belong to every point on the surface of the table. We call
SEQ:Suppose:Railway
EVI:Distance:Faraday-Maxwell interpretation of electromagnetic action at a distance
EVI:Capable:As long as one was convinced that all natural phenomena were capable of
EVI:Another:always choose another reference-body such that _no_ gravitational field
CON:Anyone
EVI:Determined:the scene of any event will be determined (for the main part) by the
EVI:Should:of energy should hold not only with reference to a co-ordinate system
SEQ:Because:Word
SEQ:Interesting:Question
SEQ:Gutenberg:Trademark
REL:Require:Take
REL:Unit:Time
CON:Inertia
EVI:Gutenberg:that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
EVI:Satisfy:we can satisfy this requirement for our illustration in the following
SEQ:Dimensional:Space
EVI:Relative:(_b_) The embankment is in motion relative to the carriage.
EVI:Galileian:of Galilei-Newton can be regarded as valid only for a Galileian system
SEQ:Still:Another
CON:Translated
EVI:Means:of relativity (Section VII) has been derived by means of a
CON:Convenience
SEQ:After:Manner
EVI:Point:point on the non-rigid reference-body. These clocks satisfy only the
EVI:Also:also lead, and this despite the profound difference in the fundamental
EVI:Number:enclose the average mass ρ0_V_. Thus the number of lines of force
EVI:Whole:these squares until finally the whole marble slab is laid out with
SEQ:Carriage:Necessarily
EVI:Distance:_I_ = distance
SEQ:Require:Determine
EVI:Large:Let us now imagine that a large number of little rods of equal length
SEQ:Detail:Nevertheless
SEQ:Straight:Line
EVI:Large:knowledge about the structure of space in the large (“cosmological
SEQ:Throughout:Whole
REL:Relativity:Simultaneity
SEQ:Call:Motion
EVI:Space:space-time continuum of the theory of relativity, in its most essential
EVI:Validity:the possibility of the exact validity of Euclidean geometry in our
EVI:Analogous:three-dimensional spherical space is quite analogous to the
CON:Develops
SEQ:Moving:Railway
SEQ:Special:Principle
SEQ:Section:Based
EVI:After:after it has been corrected for the influences mentioned above, is not
SEQ:Clock:Situated
SEQ:Field:Relative
REL:Pretence:Having
CON:Permissible
EVI:Only:of rays of light can only take place when the velocity of propagation
EVI:Constant:the inertial mass of a body is not a constant but varies according to
EVI:Along:application of the measuring-rod along the embankment.
EVI:Addition:THE THEOREM OF THE ADDITION OF VELOCITIES EMPLOYED IN CLASSICAL
EVI:Body:carriage as reference-body as when the rails are the body of reference.
EVI:Velocity:_c_ plays the part of an unattainable limiting velocity.
SEQ:Longer:Tenable
SEQ:Attached:Being
EVI:Reality:reality, the description of the time-space continuum by means of Gauss
REL:Order:Give
REL:Independent:Each
CON:Power
SEQ:Appear:Impossible
SEQ:Respects:Foundations
SEQ:Seek:Vain
CON:Wanderer
EVI:Pressure:the chest. He must therefore take up this pressure by means of his legs
SEQ:Extent:Actually
SEQ:Variations:Case
SEQ:Whereas:Newton
EVI:Appears:co-ordinates of _K_ and _K′_. It thus appears that, of all Galileian
SEQ:Equality:Diagonals
SEQ:Finally:Great
SEQ:Result:Theory
SEQ:Geometry:Hence
EVI:Time:been assumed in physics that the statement of time had an absolute
EVI:Upwards:with the observer then begin to move “upwards” with a uniformly
EVI:Velocity:accelerated motion. In course of time their velocity will reach
CON:Untrue
CON:Changing
EVI:Matriculation:corresponding to that of a university matriculation examination, and,
SEQ:Ought:Left
EVI:Astronomers:In point of fact, astronomers have found that the theory of Newton does
EVI:Phenomena:of its merits for the description of natural phenomena) in calling this
SEQ:Stage:Definition
EVI:Known:to the tube are thus known, and we require the velocity of light
CON:Introduce
SEQ:Euclidean:Properties
SEQ:Obtain:Reasonable
CON:Perhelion
EVI:Geometry:propositions of Euclidean geometry by the single proposition that two
CON:Realise
SEQ:Events:Realised
EVI:Cannot:case. We can only conclude that the special theory of relativity cannot
EVI:Approximately:We are acquainted with space-time domains which behave (approximately)
EVI:Time:“time-distance ” of the same events with respect to _K_. But the
EVI:Electronic:electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
EVI:Cannot:rods, and we cannot define Cartesian co-ordinates _in the surface_.
EVI:Exceedingly:rays required by the general theory of relativity is only exceedingly
EVI:Clock:Galileian reference-body _K_. As judged from this body, the clock at
EVI:Called:called a “Galileian system of co-ordinates.” The laws of the mechanics
SEQ:Other:Format
EVI:Events:events _A_ and _B_ also correspond to positions _A_ and _B_ on the
REL:Required:Order
EVI:Principle:hand, the principle of relativity holds true and that on the other hand
EVI:Dealt:In the example of the transmission of light just dealt with, we have
SEQ:Rate:Long
EVI:Body:transformation for changing over from one body of reference to another.
EVI:More:request to explain to me the sense of the statement more precisely, you
SEQ:License:Works
SEQ:Half:Geometrical
EVI:Cost:(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
CON:Boltzmann
SEQ:Work:Agree
SEQ:Being:Uniquely
SEQ:Here:Contraction
EVI:Velocities:disappears, because the theorem of the addition of velocities derived
EVI:Ought:Geometry ought to refrain from such a course, in order to give to its
EVI:Universe:universe. But it is conceivable that our universe differs only slightly
EVI:Just:a two-dimensional geometry, just as much as for a plane surface. Gauss
CON:Performing
SEQ:Place:Observation
EVI:Means:description of position, it should be possible by means of numerical
SEQ:Known:Cathode
EVI:Uniform:executing a uniform translatory motion with respect to _K_. In
SEQ:Province:Biology
EVI:Places:two clocks arranged at rest in different places of a reference-body are
REL:Called:Question
EVI:Information:Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
EVI:Rotating:from the position of the clock on the rotating disc to the centre of
EVI:Judged:question should take place—as judged from _K′_—in accordance with the
SEQ:Result:Following
SEQ:Directed:Towards
EVI:Presentation:the presentation. I adhered scrupulously to the precept of that
SEQ:Nevertheless:Regard
SEQ:Reference:Chosen
EVI:Less:less quickly, according to the position in which the clock is situated
EVI:Many:sense also a continuum; for to every event there are as many
SEQ:Considerations:Subject
EVI:Directed:gravitational field which is directed forwards and which is variable
SEQ:Under:Suitable
EVI:Relativity:From this we conclude that in the theory of relativity the velocity _c_
CON:Attributed
SEQ:Eddington:Others
EVI:Clearness:astronomy are to maintain their clearness, the physical meaning of
EVI:Least:Maxwell in electrodynamics? Not in the least. Electrostatics is
EVI:Seen:the following way. As seen from the earth, certain fixed stars appear
SEQ:Mathematically:Assume
REL:Promotion:Distribution
SEQ:Different:Zero
EVI:Things:paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
EVI:Chest:To the middle of the lid of the chest is fixed externally a hook with
SEQ:Laws:Regulating
SEQ:Necessarily:Also
REL:Book:Intended
SEQ:Mechanics:Does
EVI:Reference:situated. Now in reality (considered with reference to the railway
EVI:Revenue:Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification
SEQ:Process:Body
EVI:Revert:shall leave it here at present, and revert to it only towards the end
EVI:Fundamental:fundamental assumptions, the so-called axioms. We call such a system of
EVI:Calculate:you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
EVI:Have:imagine the air above it to have been removed. If a ray of light be
SEQ:Credits:Robert
EVI:Ordinate:_K_, but also with respect to every co-ordinate system _K′_ which is in
EVI:These:of atom).[23] These two deductions from the theory have both been
SEQ:Nearest:Since
EVI:Approrimately:fixed stars of approrimately the same kind and density.
EVI:Being:relativity, is far from being unimportant and pardonable. It is now
EVI:Owing:the present time (1920; see[Note], p. 48), owing to the fact that the
EVI:Fixed:definition of time. We have to imagine each of these clocks fixed at a
EVI:Possible:possible to choose a Galileian reference-body for this part of space
SEQ:Infinity:Velocity
SEQ:Phenomena:Capable
EVI:Other:doing this. The force acting on himself, and in fact on all other
REL:Used:Give
EVI:Constancy:In short, let us assume that the simple law of the constancy of the
REL:Laws:Electrostatics
EVI:Reason:considered, and for this reason it would appear to be impossible that
EVI:Styled:reference, which we have styled a “railway embankment.” We suppose a
EVI:Vanishes:time difference Δ_t_ of the same events with reference to _K_ vanishes.
EVI:Account:attainable at the present time. After taking account of all the
SEQ:Need:Think
EVI:Donations:ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
EVI:Rope:rope attached, and now a “being” (what kind of a being is immaterial to
EVI:Becomes:complete that it becomes difficult to find any deductions in which the
CON:Reject
CON:Elegance
EVI:When:sky when the sun is situated at another part of the heavens. The
EVI:Proceed:rod in common with the first. We proceed in like manner with each of
SEQ:Donations:Locations
EVI:Might:magnitude of our sun. We might imagine that, as regards geometry, our
SEQ:Dissatisfied:Until
SEQ:Requires:Conservation
EVI:Body:train will with a vantage view the train as a rigid reference-body
EVI:Geometry:by the methods of geometry, but that it is in itself entirely without
EVI:Reference:Galileian reference-body _K_. As judged from this body, the clock at
EVI:Universe:[25] For the radius _R_ of the universe we obtain the equation
SEQ:Electromagnetic:Structure
EVI:Practically:appearance, practically all of which must nevertheless escape the test
EVI:Motion:absolute physical reality to non-uniform motion, in opposition to the
EVI:Only:spherical surface differs only slightly from a piece of a plane of the
EVI:Work:receipt of the work.
EVI:Body:possible to choose a Galileian reference-body for this part of space
EVI:Experience:compared with the velocity of light. We have experience of such rapid
EVI:Uniform:a state of uniform motion of translation relative to _K_, or, briefly,
EVI:Volume:possesses a finite volume, which is determined by its “radius”
EVI:Space:perpetually passing out into infinite space, never to return, and
EVI:Four:This four-dimensional “world” bears a close similarity to the
EVI:Classical:according to classical mechanics, time is absolute, _i.e._ it is
EVI:Many:not only to _two_ events, but to as many events as we care to choose,
SEQ:Place:Where
SEQ:Effect:Exists
EVI:Theoretical:theoretical result is in accordance with the reality. We encounter the
EVI:Must:this latter theory the velocity of light must always depend on the
SEQ:System:Arbitrary
EVI:Gravity:of gravity, lies in one of the foci of the orbital ellipse in such a
SEQ:Light:Taken
EVI:Exclusion:warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
EVI:Nonproprietary:compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
EVI:Means:universe, they have no means of determining whether they are living in
SEQ:Time:Body
SEQ:Consider:Unification
SEQ:True:Does
EVI:Well:But we can carry out this consideration just as well on the basis of
SEQ:Measured:System
CON:Yielded
EVI:System:numbers lying between 1 and 2. We have then a system of _u_-curves, and
EVI:Able:completely determined. But I am now no longer able to adjust the
EVI:Spherical:independent of the diameter of the circle. On their spherical surface
EVI:Fizeau:mentioned in connection with the fundamental experiment of Fizeau. The
CON:Collected
SEQ:School:Imagine
SEQ:Cosmological:Difficulties
EVI:Shall:strives to move towards the magnet. We shall not discuss here the
EVI:First:with respect to the “Galileian space” first considered, we can
EVI:System:(non-rotating) system _K_ as reference-body, since we may only assume
SEQ:Simply:Transformation
SEQ:Possible:When
EVI:When:position in the continuum. Only when the continuum is a Euclidean one
SEQ:Magnetic:Fields
EVI:Words:classical mechanics, cannot be maintained; in other words, the law that
SEQ:Justification:Fact
EVI:Particular:we have to insert a particular value of _t_ (time of _K_), _e.g._ _t_ =
REL:Difficulties:Both
SEQ:Traversed:Whole
SEQ:Displacement:Spectral
EVI:Condition:magnitudes always fulfill the condition.[21]
SEQ:Hypothesis:About
EVI:Goes:goes through two points. We can only say that Euclidean geometry deals
EVI:Essentially:essentially new.
EVI:Tacitly:Now before the advent of the theory of relativity it had always tacitly
SEQ:Laws:Hold
CON:Many
SEQ:What:Respects
EVI:Mean:some one were to ask you: “What, then, do you mean by the assertion
EVI:Means:measured with a little rod, by means of the very small number _ds_.
EVI:Have:We start off again from quite special cases, which we have frequently
EVI:Year:_K0_ throughout the whole year. However, the most careful observations
EVI:Exists:exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
SEQ:Particular:Kind
SEQ:Rods:Clocks
EVI:Constant:in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
EVI:Measuring:reference-body _K_. The behaviour of measuring-rods and clocks with
EVI:Importance:However, we obtain a new result of fundamental importance when we carry
CON:License
SEQ:Morley:Shortened
EVI:Stone:“If we pick up a stone and then let it go, why does it fall to the
EVI:Time:according to classical mechanics, time is absolute, _i.e._ it is
SEQ:Chosen:Particular
EVI:Relativity:of this, the special theory of relativity and with it the whole theory
EVI:Ahead:whilst he is riding on ahead of the beam of light coming from _A_.
EVI:Must:gravitational to the inertial mass must likewise be the same for all
SEQ:Passing:Infinite
EVI:Without:even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
SEQ:Support:Project
SEQ:Ready:Drop
CON:Fixed
SEQ:Necessarily:Keep
CON:Vanish
EVI:Disc:the centre of the circular disc, and the other on the edge of the disc,
SEQ:Copyright:Agreement
CON:Read
SEQ:Clock:Following
EVI:Electrical:electrical masses of an electron are held together by gravitational
EVI:These:differences for these two events are _dx′, dy′, dz′, dt′_. Then these
CON:Beauty
EVI:Here:here apply the consideration of the previous section, since the ray of
EVI:Contraction:contraction of the rod as a consequence of its motion.
SEQ:Smaller:Than
SEQ:Consideration:Reader
EVI:Circumstance:electromagnetic structure of matter. This circumstance, however, does
EVI:What:for what follows. Bodies which are moving under the sole influence of a
SEQ:Remained:Obscure
EVI:Latter:of reference, without suffering from the defects of the latter mode of
EVI:Means:by means of a number. The Curves _u_ = 1, _u_ = 2 and _u_ = 3 are drawn
SEQ:Than:Emitted
EVI:Called:respect to _K_. This statement is called the _principle of relativity_
EVI:Thoroughly:The results of the measurements confirmed the theory in a thoroughly
EVI:Think:is always only an _apparent_ one. We might also think that, regardless
SEQ:Mechanics:These
SEQ:Charities:Charitable
REL:Velocity:Direction
SEQ:Electromagnetic:Theory
SEQ:Make:Themselves
CON:Country
SEQ:Destiny:Allotted
SEQ:Conditions:Understand
EVI:Rods:THE BEHAVIOUR OF MEASURING-RODS AND CLOCKS IN MOTION
SEQ:Suggest:Should
SEQ:Suppose:Existence
EVI:Spectral:years. If the displacement of spectral lines towards the red by the
REL:Assertions:Pure
EVI:Rods:which case two of our little rods can still be brought into coincidence
EVI:Structure:knowledge about the structure of space in the large (“cosmological
CON:Emitting
EVI:Ordinates:a high degree of approximation. Now if we use a system of co-ordinates
SEQ:Quite:Analogous
EVI:Represented:represented physically by means of the convention of two marks on a
EVI:Disappears:disappears, because the theorem of the addition of velocities derived
EVI:Reason:with this answer for the following reason. Supposing that as a result
SEQ:Significance:More
SEQ:Reached:Completed
EVI:Provided:in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO
EVI:Appearing:Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
EVI:System:(co-ordinate system); they regard all events in reference to the train.
SEQ:Nebulae:Interpreted
EVI:These:point on the non-rigid reference-body. These clocks satisfy only the
EVI:Ebooks:necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
EVI:System:1 when measured in the _K′_ system are thus separated in our
SEQ:Then:Rate
EVI:Meet:following. If at any moment three squares meet at a corner, then two
CON:Misdeed
EVI:Hence:potential φ, hence the result we have obtained will hold quite
REL:Both:Classical
SEQ:Continuum:Represented
EVI:Regard:certainly regard everyone with disdain who should pronounce even the
EVI:Satisfied:field must be satisfied for all gravitational fields obtainable in this
EVI:Albert:BY ALBERT EINSTEIN
EVI:Feeling:hears of “four-dimensional” things, by a feeling not unlike that
EVI:Discussion:equivalent. As a result of this discussion, a most interesting question
CON:Outset
EVI:Strings:Suppose we draw lines or stretch strings in all directions from a
EVI:Surface:universe behaves analogously to a surface which is irregularly curved
EVI:Remove:1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
EVI:Regard:co-ordinate planes, and with regard to time by a time value _t_.
EVI:Isolated:likewise the behaviour of “isolated” material points; the latter move
SEQ:Twenties:Russian
EVI:Resulting:hold for these from those resulting on the basis of Euclidean plane
SEQ:Line:When
EVI:Relative:indicated, which are due to the relative motion of the earth with
EVI:System:the system _K_ and for the system _K′_. This may be shown in the
EVI:Points:Those space-time points (events) which satisfy (1) must also satisfy
EVI:General:the general theory of relativity, the general law of the gravitational
SEQ:Further:Consideration
EVI:Performed:experiment which the brilliant physicist Fizeau performed more than
SEQ:Readable:Widest
SEQ:What:Comes
SEQ:Somewhat:Larger
EVI:Contributions:While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
EVI:Comprehensive:with the much more comprehensive statement called “the principle of
SEQ:Assumption:Hypotheses
EVI:Follow:follow from those axioms, _i.e._ they are proven. A proposition is then
CON:Magnetic
EVI:Four:four of these little rods on the marble slab so that they constitute a
EVI:Embankment:embankment and relative to the train? This question leads to a quite
SEQ:Range:Pans
CON:Required
SEQ:Information:About
EVI:Stated:point on the trajectory it must be stated at what time the body is
SEQ:Cartesian:System
CON:Footpath
EVI:Choose:be as near as we choose to the respective values of the co-ordinates
EVI:Following:1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
EVI:Included:of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online
EVI:Each:reference which are accelerated with respect to each other, and as a
EVI:Plausibility:clocks has by no means the same degree of plausibility as in the
SEQ:Here:These
EVI:Three:point, they draw “straight lines” (arcs of circles as judged in three
SEQ:Better:Accord
EVI:Produced:effects produced on the light reaching us from the fixed stars. These
EVI:Continuum:four-dimensional continuum, are defined physically in a simple manner,
EVI:Hands:of the encounter of the hands of clocks with particular points on the
EVI:Same:same domain referred to a second body of reference _K′_, which is
EVI:Part:Part from the difficulty discussed in Section XXI, there is a second
EVI:Part:tube plays the part of the railway embankment or of the co-ordinate
EVI:Have:space coordinates. It is for this reason that we have been in the habit
EVI:Copying:of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
SEQ:Copyright:Laws
SEQ:Work:Doubtless
EVI:Quadrilateral:quadrilateral figure (a square), the diagonals of which are equally
SEQ:Strives:Move
EVI:Learn:For example, we learn that a body which is in a state of uniform
SEQ:Attraction:Between
EVI:Such:of _x, y, x, t_, of such a kind that the relation
EVI:Mechanics:classical mechanics was able to establish successfully the conservation
EVI:Part:outer part do not.
SEQ:Bodies:Also
SEQ:Dimensional:Sphere
SEQ:Interpret:Facts
EVI:What:self-evident). Our principle rather asserts what follows: If we
EVI:Gutenberg:*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK RELATIVITY: THE SPECIAL AND GENERAL THEORY ***
SEQ:Following:Conclusion
EVI:General:equal right and equal success in the formulation of the general laws of
EVI:Distribute:PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK
EVI:Light:with respect to be embankment, we mean: the rays of light emitted at
EVI:Relativity:deductions from the general theory of relativity which are capable of
SEQ:Geometrical:Proposition
SEQ:Compliance:Terms
SEQ:Translation:Respect
SEQ:Imagine:System
EVI:Very:(electrons) of very small inertia and large velocity. By examining the
SEQ:Lines:Emitted
EVI:Reference:The second class of facts to which we have alluded has reference to the
EVI:Surface:geometry. The surface is not a Euclidean continuum with respect to the
SEQ:Wish:Farther
EVI:Prepare:exactly. I shall prepare the reader for this in the following
SEQ:Following:Form
SEQ:Copied:Distributed
EVI:Straight:diminishes to zero. At first, the straight lines which radiate from the
EVI:Iines:Iines. In the first place, we started out from the assumption that
SEQ:Ratio:Equal
EVI:Properties:taking into account the properties of the propagation of light, we
EVI:Power:the power of abstraction of the reader.
EVI:Clocks:measuring-rods, clocks and freely moving material points.
EVI:Always:designating always the correspondence with a “real” object; geometry,
EVI:Reason:reason why we must wait for a total eclipse is because at every other
EVI:Sections:Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.
EVI:Measuring:measuring-rod will not experience a shortening in length, as judged
CON:Official
SEQ:Discussing:Special
EVI:Impoverished:gradually but systematically impoverished.
SEQ:Field:Result
EVI:Order:In order to attain the greatest possible clearness, let us return to
SEQ:Logical:Process
EVI:Like:marble slab. In like manner we imagine a system of _v_-curves drawn on
SEQ:Find:After
SEQ:Other:Through
EVI:Formulated:which have been formulated with reference to _K_, the magnitude and
EVI:Point:hardly be doubted from a theoretical point of view), leads to an origin
SEQ:Compare:Results
SEQ:Additional:Terms
SEQ:Call:Velocity
EVI:Conservation:Before the advent of relativity, physics recognised two conservation
EVI:Observation:observation possible at the present time; but that in the case of
EVI:Disc:[18] The field disappears at the centre of the disc and increases
EVI:Deep:was necessary to surmount a serious difficulty, and as this lies deep
SEQ:Ought:Mentioned
REL:Behaviour:Bodies
CON:Difference
EVI:Give:Geometry ought to refrain from such a course, in order to give to its
EVI:Relative:then it will also be moving uniformly and in a straight line relative
SEQ:Work:Associated
EVI:These:These _u_-curves must not intersect each other, and through each point
EVI:Respect:respect to _K_ are given? The relations must be so chosen that the law
EVI:Space:four-dimensional, space-time continuum. We called these “Galileian
EVI:Course:manner that, in the course of a planet-year, the distance sun-planet
SEQ:Present:Fundamental
SEQ:Theory:Only
CON:Unsatisfactory
SEQ:General:Laws
SEQ:Reaching:Project
SEQ:Gaussian:Four
EVI:Produces:stone and produces its motion of fall. As we know from experience, the
EVI:Happening:point-event a “world-point.” From a “happening” in three-dimensional
EVI:Emitting:the velocity of motion of the body emitting the light. The assumption
EVI:Confirmation:where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
SEQ:Certainly:Revealed
REL:Defined:Fulfilled
SEQ:Must:Perfectly
EVI:Origin:If we call _v_ the velocity with which the origin of _K′_ is moving
SEQ:Planets:Save
SEQ:Astronomy:Against
EVI:Network:distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
REL:Transformation:Given
EVI:Clocks:Now in practice we can move clocks and measuring-rods only with
SEQ:Sphere:Rather
SEQ:Clear:Previous
EVI:Mercury:disturbing influences exerted on Mercury by the remaining planets, it
CON:Legs
EVI:Nevertheless:Nevertheless, there are two general facts which at the outset speak
REL:Small:Make
EVI:Moving:therefore follows that the length of a rigid metre-rod moving in the
EVI:Only:this, we need only ask where the beginning of the rod and the end of
EVI:Kind:fixed stars of approrimately the same kind and density.
CON:Worldsphere
CON:Child
SEQ:Time:Between
EVI:These:with experience (Riemann, Helmholtz). These questions have already been
CON:Whether
SEQ:Phenomenon:Given
SEQ:Open:Question
EVI:Whole:But this point of view by no means embraces the whole of the actual
EVI:Transmission:transmission. This is connected with the fact that the velocity _c_
EVI:Formula:represented by the analogous formula
SEQ:Shows:Pronounced
SEQ:Obviously:Problem
EVI:Hypotheses:combination and generalisation of the hypotheses, formerly independent
SEQ:Dimensional:View
EVI:Supposing:justified on the grounds of experience in supposing his reference-body
EVI:Thus:Thus all our previous conclusions based on general relativity would
CON:Resistance
SEQ:Such:System
EVI:Most:Most recently updated: May 2, 2023
SEQ:Small:Donations
EVI:Expressed:of co-ordinates. We see this expressed in the last equation of the
SEQ:Arise:However
SEQ:Dimensions:Imagine
SEQ:Time:After
SEQ:Deflection:Should
EVI:Particular:two points _A′_ and _B′_ at a particular time t—judged from the
EVI:Thus:We should thus have the solution of our problem, if the constants _a_
EVI:Rules:according to the rules of geometry; then, starting from _A_, we can
SEQ:Able:Establish
SEQ:Foot:Pole
EVI:Euclidean:consideration behave more nearly like a Euclidean system, the smaller
EVI:Theory:calculation, deviations from the theory of Newton make their
EVI:Kinds:general sense from two kinds of transformations, viz. from Lorentz
EVI:Respect:reference which are accelerated with respect to each other, and as a
EVI:Only:light. There is only _one_ demand to be made of the definition of
EVI:Other:• You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
EVI:Emphasised:line or continue in a state of rest. We have also repeatedly emphasised
EVI:Space:expansion of space.
SEQ:Ordinates:Thus
EVI:Comprehensibility:which gives the “mollusc” a certain comprehensibility as compared with
SEQ:Book:Made
EVI:Relative:velocity of transmission relative to the reference-body _K′_ is also
EVI:City:Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
EVI:Overcome:known how this incongruity is to be overcome.
EVI:Support:Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
SEQ:Defined:Cannot
EVI:Foundation:The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
EVI:Square:sides of the fourth square are already laid, and, as a consequence, the
CON:Supposed
EVI:Take:we only require to take a “snapshot” of _K′_ from _K_; this means that
EVI:Creating:Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
EVI:Experience:experience. Guided by purely formal points of view, H. A. Lorentz was
SEQ:Might:Negative
CON:Unjustifiable
SEQ:Framework:Without
EVI:Values:be as near as we choose to the respective values of the co-ordinates
EVI:Universe:PART III: CONSIDERATIONS ON THE UNIVERSE AS A WHOLE
SEQ:Defined:Detail
EVI:First:In the first place, we imagine an existence in two dimensional space.
EVI:Permanently:would permanently maintain its position with respect to the fixed
EVI:Must:Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
SEQ:Where:Have
EVI:Traverses:along the rails with a constant velocity _v_, and that a man traverses
EVI:Earth:earth. But as a consequence of the deflection of light from the star by
SEQ:Point:Whilst
EVI:Imagine:From a systematic theoretical point of view, we may imagine the process
EVI:Spectral:sun,[22] and a displacement of the spectral lines of light reaching us
EVI:Indefinitely:numbers (Gaussian coordinates) which differ by an indefinitely small
SEQ:Preference:Description
CON:Lines
SEQ:Word:Processing
SEQ:Legal:Fees
EVI:Himself:of will on the part of the reader. The author has spared himself no
CON:Leads
EVI:Clearness:appreciate with sufficient clearness what I mean here by “neighbouring”
SEQ:Reality:Detailed
REL:Come:Regard
CON:Problem
REL:Entity:Whom
REL:Ideas:Either
EVI:Systems:systems are given preference for the description of the
CON:Exporting
CON:Increased
SEQ:Hear:About
EVI:Thus:of the surface one and only one curve must pass. Thus a perfectly
CON:Spherical
SEQ:Mechanical:Laws
EVI:Rays:to wit, the curvature of light rays by the gravitational field of the
EVI:Respect:with respect to time. Under the influence of this field, the embankment
EVI:Demonstrate:indeed, they will no longer be able to demonstrate that they are on a
EVI:Work:Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
CON:Total
CON:Ways
EVI:Cannot:state of motion,” cannot be maintained, because the use of rigid
SEQ:Must:Additional
EVI:Existence:momentary existence without duration, then it would to described in
EVI:Section:section. If we denote the velocity of the light relative to the tube by
SEQ:Manner:Gauss
CON:Morley
EVI:Physical:nature with which we meet in physical statements.
CON:Reached
EVI:Rays:of light _in vacuo_ for rays of light of arbitrary direction, both for
SEQ:Mollusc:Reference
EVI:Then:conditions required by the fundamental law of Galilei. It is then
SEQ:Bodies:Systems
EVI:Possibility:in Section VI becomes invalid. The possibility presents itself that the
EVI:Took:the two events took place simultaneously or not.” I cannot be satisfied
EVI:Universe:universe, considered as a whole, is to be regarded, the first answer
SEQ:Motion:Translation
EVI:Mass:mass. If this natural law did not exist, the man in the accelerated
EVI:Supplementary:(SUPPLEMENTARY TO SECTION XVII)
EVI:Least:_x_4 (co-ordinates), which have not the least direct physical
EVI:Every:If every ray of light is propagated relative to the embankment with the
EVI:Difference:Moreover, according to this equation the time difference Δ_t′_ of two
EVI:Turn:something being what we call a “magnetic field.” In its turn this
EVI:Renders:form, which renders it yet more clearly intelligible than it is when in
EVI:Considerations:against a misconception suggested by these considerations. A
SEQ:Given:Equation
EVI:Virtue:virtue of these ideas, we are inclined to accept as “true.” Then, on
CON:Take
SEQ:Points:Latter
EVI:Behaviour:forwards. The retarded motion is manifested in the mechanical behaviour
SEQ:Question:Validity
EVI:Taken:But if the snapshot be taken from _K′_(_t′_ = 0), and if we eliminate
EVI:Sitting:sitting eccentrically on the disc _K′_ is sensible of a force which
EVI:Must:point on the trajectory it must be stated at what time the body is
SEQ:Velocity:According
EVI:Glance:After further consideration you cast a somewhat disdainful glance at
EVI:Bodies:phenomena connected with moving bodies show that experience in this
EVI:Owing:speak of a “continuum,” and owing to the fact that there are three
CON:Suggest
REL:Arrangement:Such
EVI:Course:we cannot pursue this course. The epoch-making theoretical
EVI:Galileian:We start off on a consideration of a Galileian domain, _i.e._ a domain
EVI:Force:number of lines of force which enters the sphere is thus proportional
EVI:Increase:circle continues to increase more and more, until finally it becomes
EVI:Surface:surface by means of a square made up of measuring-rods. If the universe
EVI:Remained:them, the nature of which has hitherto remained obscure to us.[13] If
EVI:Equivalence:equivalence of _all_ bodies of reference _K_ in connection with the
SEQ:Used:Before
SEQ:Masses:Sign
CON:Compensate
SEQ:Effect:Inertia
EVI:Tacit:basis the tacit assumptions of the older mechanics as to the absolute
EVI:Similar:by its dark neighbour. By means of similar considerations based on
SEQ:Respect:Reference
SEQ:Theory:Difficulty
SEQ:Relativity:Crystallised
EVI:Table:value of _v_ belong to every point on the surface of the table. We call
EVI:Carriage:Let us suppose our old friend the railway carriage to be travelling
REL:Mean:Assign
EVI:More:with more respect than love—the magnificent structure, on the lofty
EVI:Points:likewise the behaviour of “isolated” material points; the latter move
CON:Moving
EVI:Foundation:to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website
EVI:Fourth:ticks of this clock. The first and fourth equations of the Lorentz
EVI:Universe:a finite or in an infinite universe, because the “piece of universe” to
REL:Specified:Paragraph
REL:Effort:Identify
SEQ:Nature:Light
CON:Situated
EVI:Indebted:We are indebted to the [British] Royal Society and to the Royal
SEQ:Future:Project
EVI:Remedy:high time that we remedy this defect; but I would mention at the
EVI:Plane:rotates uniformly in its own plane about its centre. An observer who is
CON:Raven
SEQ:Electrified:Particles
EVI:Have:nevertheless regard the chest as being at rest. We have thus good
EVI:Realised:considerations only for the case, which is never strictly realised, in
CON:Springer
EVI:Lines:displacement of spectral lines be definitely traced to the
EVI:Theory:of the planet. Theory requires that this rotation should amount to 43
EVI:Relativity:[13] The general theory of relativity renders it likely that the
EVI:Gauss:Now let us refer this domain to a random Gauss coordinate system or to
EVI:Ideas:pains in his endeavour to present the main ideas in the simplest and
SEQ:Played:Intuition
EVI:Middle:middle of the lid of the chest and the rope which is attached to it,
EVI:Added:theory of relativity, but only after a hypothetical term was added to
EVI:General:IV. The Structure of Space According to the General Theory of Relativity (supplementary to section XXXII)
EVI:Continuum:space-time continuum cannot be regarded as a Euclidean one, but that
EVI:Data:interpretation of space- and time-data in the case of the general
EVI:Lorentz:transformation (not only the Lorentz transformation) corresponds to the
EVI:Finite:possesses a finite volume, which is determined by its “radius”
EVI:Brazil:equipped two expeditions—to Sobral (Brazil), and to the island of
EVI:Away:displaced radially outwards (away from the centre of the sun) by an
REL:Work:Doubtless
CON:Line
EVI:Description:description. The Gauss co-ordinate system has to take the place of the
EVI:Condition:there exists a reference-body _K_, whose condition of motion is such
EVI:Point:the mid-point _M_ of the length _A_ → _B_ of the embankment. But the
SEQ:Draw:Conclusions
EVI:Lines:red ought to take place for spectral lines produced at the surface of
EVI:Always:is always only an _apparent_ one. We might also think that, regardless
SEQ:Thus:Make
EVI:Analogously:Analogously, I seek in vain for a real something in classical mechanics
EVI:Relative:from _K′_, of a unit measuring-rod which is at rest relative to _K_. In
EVI:Work:additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
SEQ:Much:Plane
EVI:System:the points _A, B_ and _C_ of the railway line (co-ordinate system) and
EVI:General:and the general theory of relativity on the other. This agreement goes
EVI:Defective:intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
SEQ:Require:Distance
SEQ:Transformation:Obtain
EVI:Disc:shall imagine _K′_ to be in the form of a plane circular disc, which
EVI:Another:We have another instance of far-reaching agreement between the
SEQ:Field:Turn
SEQ:State:General
EVI:Same:which is everywhere the same and different from zero.
CON:Rates
SEQ:Previous:Considerations
EVI:Celestial:fundamental difficulty attending classical celestial mechanics, which,
EVI:Such:Geometry sets out from certain conceptions such as “plane,” “point,”
CON:Improbable
EVI:Exempt:($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
SEQ:Clock:Unit
SEQ:Michael:Hart
EVI:Carriage:this jerk to a “real” acceleration (retardation) of the carriage. He
EVI:Works:performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
EVI:Development:things, then we can characterise the development which is being
SEQ:Rope:Hang
REL:Laws:Classical
EVI:Exceeds:given the amount by which the radius sun-planet exceeds this angle
SEQ:Ebooks:Compliance
EVI:Morley:Michelson and Morley performed an experiment involving interference in
SEQ:Between:Position
SEQ:Remember:Perhaps
SEQ:Event:Object
SEQ:Between:Them
EVI:Relative:have to do with places and times relative both to the train and to the
SEQ:Surface:Thus
SEQ:Geometry:Perpendicular
EVI:Body:for the reference-body _K′_. A light-signal is sent along the positive
SEQ:Ordinates:Such
EVI:Before:state of motion. But before proceeding farther, it ought to be pointed
EVI:Subject:inherent to the subject. On the other hand, I have purposely treated
EVI:Situated:less quickly, according to the position in which the clock is situated
CON:Adjust
EVI:Regarded:“elliptical space.” It can be regarded as a curved space in which the
EVI:Body:positions relative to the body of reference (railway carriage or
SEQ:System:Devoid
EVI:Indistinguishable:two “counter-points” are identical (indistinguishable from each other).
EVI:Measured:train as measured from the embankment may be different from that
EVI:Observed:one condition, that the “readings” which are observed simultaneously on
EVI:Mean:with respect to be embankment, we mean: the rays of light emitted at
EVI:Space:space” is in itself improbable.
CON:Powerful
EVI:Idea:co-ordinates,” which is a useful idea for mathematical description, we
SEQ:Effect:Case
SEQ:Encounters:Constitute
SEQ:Only:Exceedingly
EVI:Universe:their universe there is room for an infinite number of identical
EVI:Sense:are always simultaneous (in the sense of the above definition).
EVI:Manner:immediate vicinity (in space) of the event. In this manner a time-value
EVI:Explanation:with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
EVI:Space:In the first part of this book we were able to make use of space-time
SEQ:Doing:Intention
EVI:Free:infinitely large gravitational fields being produced. We thus free
EVI:Need:numbers. I only need state how many rods I must pass over when,
SEQ:Possible:Associate
EVI:Require:License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
SEQ:Surmount:Difficulty
SEQ:Points:Then
SEQ:Attraction:Calculation
CON:Celebrated
SEQ:Neighbouring:Repeating
EVI:Relativity:detour in order to be able to apply the postulate of general relativity
EVI:Purpose:innumerable laws which would serve the same purpose, without our being
CON:Infringement
SEQ:Ebooks:Often
EVI:Respects:propagated curvilinearly in gravitational fields._ In two respects this
SEQ:Real:Things
SEQ:Have:Able
EVI:Trademark:the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
EVI:Disclaimer:1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
EVI:Teaches:reference _K′_, our consideration also teaches us how the gravitational
EVI:Interest:connection in which they actually originated. In the interest of
EVI:Time:space co-ordinates as opposed to the time co-ordinate. Every point on
EVI:Corner:choosing one corner of a square as “origin” I can characterise every
REL:Order:Escape
EVI:Outwards:acts outwards in a radial direction, and which would be interpreted as
SEQ:Ourselves:Both
EVI:Required:It is required by the law of propagation of light, in conjunction with
SEQ:Somewhat:Arbitrary
SEQ:Reality:Plane
EVI:Whole:of this, the special theory of relativity and with it the whole theory
SEQ:Exceedingly:Small
CON:Subtracting
SEQ:Comparison:Mass
EVI:Attending:fundamental difficulty attending classical celestial mechanics, which,
EVI:Means:means of measuring-rods and clocks. If we had based our considerations
SEQ:Clear:Must
SEQ:Official:Project
SEQ:Paying:Slightest
EVI:Sides:sides of the fourth square are already laid, and, as a consequence, the
EVI:Absolute:absolute angular measure customary in physics, and the above expression
EVI:Access:1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
EVI:Plays:co-ordinate system _K′_, and finally, the light plays the part of the
EVI:Chest:us) begins pulling at this with a constant force. The chest together
CON:Understood
EVI:Velocity:If we call _v_ the velocity with which the origin of _K′_ is moving
EVI:Directly:the position of defining Cartesian co-ordinates directly with their
SEQ:Electrodynamical:Optical
EVI:Emitted:would be different from that emitted if the axis of the pipe were
EVI:Moves:together with the earth moves non-uniformly in such a manner that their
SEQ:Field:Hereupon
SEQ:Relative:System
EVI:Earth:together with the earth moves non-uniformly in such a manner that their
CON:Account
SEQ:Long:Known
EVI:Great:square constructed with rods. The great charm resulting from this
SEQ:Right:Diagram
EVI:Position:number of points in the neighbourhood of this one, the position of
EVI:Theorem:THE THEOREM OF THE ADDITION OF VELOCITIES EMPLOYED IN CLASSICAL
SEQ:Ends:Rods
SEQ:Second:Part
CON:Ebook
CON:Describe
EVI:Simultaneous:When we say that the lightning strokes _A_ and _B_ are simultaneous
EVI:Measure:clearness in no mean measure.
CON:Perforce
CON:Satisficd
CON:Something
EVI:Between:may indicate the distance (line-interval) between _P_ and _P′_, as
EVI:Time:(2) The magnitude (“radius”) of space is independent of time.
EVI:Describes:every fixed star describes a circle of immense radius in the course of
SEQ:Comprehensive:Theory
EVI:Course:deceived as a physicist (and of course the same applies if I am not a
CON:Stand
SEQ:Criterion:Simultaneity
SEQ:Rates:When
EVI:Exactly:rate_ if they are of identical construction. Stated more exactly: When
SEQ:Take:Pressure
SEQ:Proceed:Outwards
EVI:Natural:assign an exact meaning to the natural laws in which these occur.
CON:Disclose
EVI:Required:rays required by the general theory of relativity is only exceedingly
EVI:Conjunction:encounters of the body with clocks, in conjunction with the observation
SEQ:Ordinate:Every
CON:Quality
EVI:Centre:the clock at the centre of the circular disc, _i.e._ as observed from
EVI:Gutenberg:Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
SEQ:Points:Continuum
EVI:Gravitational:him on the supposition of a gravitational field, and he would not be
SEQ:Field:Acts
EVI:Domains:We are acquainted with space-time domains which behave (approximately)
SEQ:Velocity:Approaches
EVI:Gaussian:fundamental idea of the general principle of relativity: “_All Gaussian
EVI:Also:correctly, but also the field of force experienced by himself.
EVI:Situated:quantitatively. A clock, which is situated at a distance r from the
EVI:Solution:hypothesis (2). Namely, the original field equations admit a solution
EVI:Cannot:according to Section XXI the general theory of relativity cannot retain
SEQ:Never:Seen
SEQ:Exactly:Three
SEQ:Slightly:Different
EVI:Space:Pure “space-distance” of two events with respect to _K_ results in
SEQ:Relativity:Entered
SEQ:When:Flashes
SEQ:Ordinary:Accented
SEQ:Curve:Positions
SEQ:Sense:Orbital
SEQ:Matter:Very
EVI:Relative:then resolve themselves into propositions on the possible relative
EVI:Basis:But we can carry out this consideration just as well on the basis of
CON:Certainty
SEQ:Relativity:Main
SEQ:Expansion:Space
EVI:Clocks:definition of time with the aid of clocks which are arranged at rest
SEQ:Conviction:According
SEQ:Numbers:Only
SEQ:Force:Attraction
EVI:Body:small amount. This non-rigid reference-body, which might appropriately
EVI:Second:strokes of the clock is not one second, but
SEQ:Process:Rigid
EVI:Derived:disappears, because the theorem of the addition of velocities derived
EVI:Value:our flat beings would find for this ratio the value
CON:Weak
SEQ:Large:Stars
SEQ:Still:Less
SEQ:Using:Ebook
EVI:Very:strike you as being very singular, and for that reason I shall now draw
CON:Locate
CON:Conversant
EVI:Lorentz:general sense from two kinds of transformations, viz. from Lorentz
SEQ:Exist:Then
EVI:Work:what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
EVI:Serve:the law of motion is of any kind, however irregular, serve for the
EVI:Exception:manner indicated above; that for all the planets, with the exception of
EVI:Purpose:The purpose of mechanics is to describe how bodies change their
EVI:Arrow:How quickly does it travel in the direction of the arrow in the tube
EVI:Gravitational:influence of the gravitational field on measuring-rods, clocks and
SEQ:Rotation:Disc
EVI:Lengths:character of times and lengths, then instead of the above we should
REL:Royal:Royal
SEQ:State:Reason
SEQ:Orientation:Ordinate
SEQ:More:Subtle
SEQ:Nature:Since
SEQ:Appropriate:Comparison
EVI:Deductible:Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
CON:Darwinian
EVI:Make:Apart from this one, it has hitherto been possible to make only two
EVI:Body:lid, and that he attaches a body to the free end of the rope. The
EVI:Posted:1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
SEQ:Given:Chosen
EVI:Embankment:travelling train. Just when the flashes (as judged from the embankment)
SEQ:Rest:Long
EVI:Compensate:contraction being just sufficient to compensate for the difference in
SEQ:Hold:Respect
SEQ:Theory:Such
SEQ:Position:Condition
EVI:Space:(2) The magnitude (“radius”) of space is independent of time.
EVI:Electronic:free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
EVI:Then:and we then obtain
EVI:Velocity:velocity of light _in vacuo_.
EVI:Course:course from the theory of Newton, a small variation from the
SEQ:Rays:Under
EVI:Towards:the temptation to venture the step towards the general principle of
EVI:Made:situated on a straight line, if their apparent positions can be made to
EVI:Reference:reference-body _K′_ moving uniformly with respect to _K_, if we assume
EVI:Retaining:outside the _x_-axis, is obtained by retaining equations (8) and
EVI:Associated:phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
SEQ:Space:Interval
CON:Call
EVI:Imagine:whom we will imagine sitting alongside his clock at the centre of the
SEQ:Small:Variation
SEQ:Latter:Mode
SEQ:Also:Interpret
EVI:Reports:of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
EVI:Solely:which have little probability, and which were devised solely for this
EVI:Something:something being what we call a “magnetic field.” In its turn this
REL:Alluded:Reference
REL:Discussed:Detail
EVI:Before:agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
SEQ:Your:Distribution
SEQ:Inertia:Adhere
CON:Fixes
SEQ:Leads:Origin
EVI:Motion:motion is physically unique. This result was interpreted physically by
REL:Come:Speak
EVI:Result:become reconciled to this negative result, for reasons now to be
EVI:Donations:Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
EVI:Exact:very exact grasp of this work in order to understand the fundamental
EVI:Than:sphere rather than on another closed surface. But this choice has its
SEQ:Phenomena:Case
EVI:Possibility:physicist until he has the possibility of discovering whether or not it
EVI:Measurements:consequence of their measurements.
EVI:Satisfy:Minkowski found that the Lorentz transformations satisfy the following
SEQ:Arrived:Following
SEQ:Applicability:Practice
EVI:Case:that he can without reluctance interpret the facts of the case as
EVI:Regards:extent. But as regards the deductions from the theories which are
SEQ:Form:Whole
EVI:Since:account of their nature. For since electrical masses of one sign repel
EVI:Work:of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
EVI:Exact:the theory of relativity, and the agreement is, indeed, very exact.
CON:Figure
CON:Choice
EVI:Ideas:last are undoubtedly the exclusive cause of the genesis of those ideas.
SEQ:Especial:Favour
SEQ:Acceleration:What
EVI:Determined:completely determined. But I am now no longer able to adjust the
SEQ:Condition:Things
SEQ:These:Rays
EVI:Resulting:square constructed with rods. The great charm resulting from this
SEQ:Velocity:Rest
EVI:Very:experiment gave a negative result—a fact very perplexing to physicists.
EVI:Zero:it thenceforward gradually decreases to zero for still further
EVI:System:a high degree of approximation. Now if we use a system of co-ordinates
SEQ:Carriage:Should
EVI:Definite:definite way on _u_ and _v_. The magnitudes _g_11, _g_12 and _g_22,
EVI:Continuity:so close together as to give continuity; corresponding to the material
SEQ:Gravitationial:Fields
SEQ:Longer:Euclidean
EVI:Broad:broad basis for the theoretical presentation of all physical phenomena,
SEQ:Removed:References
EVI:Continuum:THE SPACE-TIME CONTINUUM OF THE GENERAL THEORY OF RELATIVITY IS NOT A
SEQ:Ours:Extends
SEQ:Foundation:Created
SEQ:Aroused:These
EVI:Homogeneous:linear homogeneous functions of _x_1, _x_2, _x_3 which identically
SEQ:Have:Modify
EVI:Plane:plane Euclidean geometry with their rods. In this connection the
SEQ:Spherical:Then
EVI:Xxiv:considered in Section XXIV. In contrast to ours, the universe of these
EVI:Classical:representation with the help of classical mechanics, there was no need
EVI:Metre:Place a metre-rod in the _x′_-axis of _K′_ in such a manner that one
SEQ:Express:Terms
SEQ:Without:Charge
EVI:Land:had in his land, the accelertion of the chest will no longer be
EVI:Exactly:reference to _K′_ must be exactly the same as the length, as judged
SEQ:Moving:Perpendicularly
SEQ:Possesses:Finite
CON:Substituting
EVI:Nowhere:in its individual parts, but which nowhere departs appreciably from a
SEQ:Return:Medium
SEQ:Positive:Answer
EVI:Already:natural processes, the laws of which are already known when a
EVI:Relative:relative to the surface of the earth by erecting a pole perpendicularly
SEQ:Seized:Mysterious
REL:Constrained:Raise
SEQ:More:Detailed
SEQ:Galileian:Ordinate
SEQ:General:Every
SEQ:Indeed:Longer
CON:Principe
SEQ:Continuum:Result
SEQ:Magnet:Always
CON:Great
EVI:Them:colour of the light reaching us from them. The latter effect manifests
SEQ:Might:Fittingly
EVI:Intersect:These _u_-curves must not intersect each other, and through each point
SEQ:Foundations:Classical
SEQ:Most:Interesting
EVI:Term:(“cosmological term of the field equations”).
EVI:These:observation during a total eclipse of the sun. At such times, these
EVI:Minkowski:“world” by Minkowski is naturally four dimensional in the space-time
EVI:Note:Note: The fifth Appendix was added by Einstein at the time of the
EVI:Results:GENERAL RESULTS OF THE THEORY
EVI:Velocity:(electrons) of very small inertia and large velocity. By examining the
EVI:Called:Similarly, the world of physical phenomena which was briefly called
SEQ:Arbitrary:Curves
EVI:Earth:point. Thus for a co-ordinate system moving with the earth the mirror
SEQ:Basis:Physical
EVI:Theory:results the latter theory has hitherto evinced.
EVI:Efforts:be assumed relative to the earth, and for a long time the efforts of
EVI:Gravitational:In contrast to electric and magnetic fields, the gravitational field
CON:Actual
EVI:Matter:regard the matter as quite settled, because I feel constrained to raise
EVI:Devoid:system devoid of rotation, then natural phenomena run their course with
EVI:Properties:From our point of view this means: The law governing the properties of
SEQ:More:Dimensions
EVI:Physics:supplemented in this way is then to be treated as a branch of physics.
SEQ:Julius:Springer
CON:Duration
EVI:Present:seems to suggest that, for the present at any rate, there is little
SEQ:Distant:Seen
SEQ:Field:Prevails
EVI:Material:freely-moving material points continues to take place according to the
SEQ:Required:Then
EVI:Rope:result of this will be to stretch the rope so that it will hang
EVI:Velocity:_w_. How quickly or, in other words, with what velocity _W_ does the
SEQ:Amount:Assigned
EVI:Curved:It may be mentioned that there is yet another kind of curved space:
EVI:Physical:principle of the physical relativity of all _uniform_ motion. Let as
REL:System:Equations
EVI:Mechanics:basis the tacit assumptions of the older mechanics as to the absolute
SEQ:Charm:Resulting
EVI:Should:description of position, it should be possible by means of numerical
EVI:Describe:The purpose of mechanics is to describe how bodies change their
EVI:Slightest:frequently, without paying the slightest attention to the elegance of
EVI:Only:to objects of experience, but only with the logical connection of these
SEQ:Appear:Another
EVI:Real:an infinitely large number to be drawn, all of which correspond to real
SEQ:Body:Mollusc
EVI:Essential:space-time continuum of the theory of relativity, in its most essential
EVI:Circumference:surface, the ratio of the circumference of a circle to its diameter,
EVI:High:high time that we remedy this defect; but I would mention at the
REL:Work:Unprotected
EVI:Adhere:law of inertia. So that if we adhere to this law we must refer these
SEQ:Principle:Relativity
EVI:Meant:meant here by motion “in space”? From the considerations of the
EVI:Body:this connection a Galileian reference-body serves as body of reference,
SEQ:Place:Instantaneous
SEQ:Discussed:Inherited
EVI:Places:Lightning has struck the rails on our railway embankment at two places
REL:Principle:Relativity
EVI:Refers:statement of time refers, there is no meaning in a statement of the
EVI:Imagine:shall imagine _K′_ to be in the form of a plane circular disc, which
SEQ:Rods:Similar
EVI:Shows:shows that also from the standpoint of the theory of relativity this
SEQ:Measured:Simplest
EVI:Clocks:rigid bodies and clocks, which shall be of such a nature that
EVI:Second:propagation of light. With this and with a second difficulty prevailing
EVI:Propositions:propositions of Euclidean geometry by the single proposition that two
CON:Formulated
EVI:Project:goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
EVI:Same:same difficulty with all physical statements in which the conception
EVI:Copyright:States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
EVI:Derivative:distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
EVI:Part:as set forth in detail in the first part of this book. For the
SEQ:Business:Office
EVI:Instead:on a spherical surface instead of on a plane. The flat beings with
EVI:Velocity:the form of radiation without suffering an alteration in velocity in
CON:Believe
EVI:Other:This consists of three plane surfaces perpendicular to each other and
EVI:More:more general theoretical principles as is the law of Newton.
SEQ:Gutenberg:Work
REL:Rods:Equal
SEQ:Good:Exactly
EVI:Space:theory of relativity, is in general not possible in space-time
EVI:Electronic:providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
EVI:Ordinates:space co-ordinates as opposed to the time co-ordinate. Every point on
SEQ:Being:Based
EVI:Assumption:obtained here without any particular assumption, whereas Newton had to
SEQ:Ideas:Correspond
EVI:Transmission:The law of transmission of light, the acceptance of which is justified
EVI:Values:manner. What are the values _x′, y′, z′, t′_, of an event with respect
EVI:When:always possible. It is only possible when sufficiently small regions of
SEQ:Such:Exactness
EVI:Contrary:contrary. It has been assumed that all these clocks _go at the same
EVI:Gauss:However, the Gauss treatment for _ds_2 which we have given above is not
EVI:Suggest:Certain considerations suggest that we should refer the same Galileian
SEQ:Active:Links
EVI:Against:against a misconception suggested by these considerations. A
CON:Indirectly
EVI:Again:assumptions of the two theories. In what follows, we shall again
EVI:Just:In the example of the transmission of light just dealt with, we have
EVI:Obtain:and if Newton’s theory be strictly correct, we ought to obtain for the
EVI:Much:course much less. Let us inquire about the velocity of propagation of
EVI:Previous:shall hardly be able to compare the results of the previous section
CON:Stimulus
SEQ:Geometry:Plane
SEQ:Gave:Negative
SEQ:Manifested:Mechanical
EVI:Kinetic:accordance with the theory of relativity the kinetic energy of a
EVI:Sharing:free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
SEQ:Physicist:Until
SEQ:Theory:Demands
SEQ:Attached:Rigid
SEQ:Stars:Dutch
SEQ:Final:Remark
EVI:Wave:amounts to about two millionths of the wave-length. A trustworthy
EVI:Place:Galilei transformation (Section XI). In place of the man walking inside
EVI:General:theory of relativity, is in general not possible in space-time
EVI:Appear:But, from our above consideration, this would appear to be impossible.
SEQ:Satisfies:Condition
EVI:Variable:gravitational field which is directed forwards and which is variable
EVI:Anything:do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
EVI:Lays:outset, that this matter lays no small claims on the patience and on
SEQ:Distance:Radii
SEQ:Shall:Such
EVI:Photographs:during the eclipse and the comparison photographs amounted to a few
CON:Pointers
EVI:Differs:According also to the general theory of relativity, which differs of
SEQ:Train:Itself
CON:Event
SEQ:Doppler:Principle
SEQ:Early:Solution
SEQ:Other:Indefinitely
SEQ:Hence:Result
EVI:Think:getting into the greatest difficulties. We only need to think of the
SEQ:Than:Long
SEQ:Only:When
SEQ:Stretch:Strings
SEQ:Time:Distance
EVI:Only:interpretation can be obtained only if we recognise the following fact:
EVI:Actual:by our actual knowledge, played an important part in this process of
EVI:Described:of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
EVI:States:This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
EVI:Satisfied:idea of relativity has supplied the laws satisfied by the gravitational
CON:Simultaneous
CON:Previously
EVI:World:with the radius _R_ of the “world-sphere.” By means of this relation
SEQ:Latter:Motion
SEQ:Free:Move
EVI:Means:_K_. By means of the first equation of the Lorentz transformation the
EVI:Second:We now proceed to the second argument, to which, moreover, we shall
EVI:Ellipse:ellipse of every planet round the sun must necessarily rotate in the
EVI:Simple:results are obtained in an exceedingly simple manner, and the effects
SEQ:What:Call
EVI:Simple:definite ideas, and from certain simple propositions (axioms) which, in
EVI:Earth:question whether or not the motion of the earth in space can be made
EVI:Schwarzschild:Evershed and Schwarzschild on the cyanogen bands, have placed the
EVI:What:neutralised by the tension of the rope; what determines the magnitude
EVI:When:system _K′_ is a Galileian one, when, in relation to _K_, it is in a
CON:Choosing
EVI:During:during the interval between one perihelion and the next.) In this
SEQ:Distances:Short
EVI:Following:Minkowski found that the Lorentz transformations satisfy the following
CON:Manifests
REL:Number:Statements
CON:Fashion
EVI:Fact:embankment and the railway carriage, we can express the fact of the
EVI:Except:1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
SEQ:Such:User
SEQ:Equations:Must
EVI:Realised:special kind. This hope has been realised in the most beautiful manner.
EVI:Density:(1) There exists an average density of matter in the whole of space
EVI:Rods:Now in practice we can move clocks and measuring-rods only with
EVI:Space:the mollusc is treated as a space-point, and every material point which
SEQ:Making:Adjustments
EVI:Authorised:Authorised Translation by Robert W. Lawson
SEQ:Tested:Great
SEQ:Negatively:Electrified
SEQ:Part:World
CON:Received
EVI:Permanently:Let us now consider a seconds-clock which is permanently situated at
SEQ:Then:Points
EVI:Previous:me—and rightly so—and you declare: “I maintain my previous definition
EVI:Places:the places _A_ and _B_, where the lightning occurs, meet each other at
EVI:Brilliant:brilliant theoretical physicist L. Boltzmann, according to whom matters
EVI:Body:for the body. From these two relations follows:
SEQ:Nonproprietary:Proprietary
SEQ:Must:Comply
SEQ:Have:Another
SEQ:Also:Influenced
EVI:Shall:consider these important deductions, and we shall also discuss the
EVI:Affords:more and more evident that classical mechanics affords an insufficient
EVI:Theory:theory of gravitation.[18] But since the observer believes in the
SEQ:Reaching:Fixed
SEQ:According:Gauss
EVI:Literary:including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
EVI:Event:Every description of the scene of an event or of the position of an
EVI:Carriage:respect to the carriage must not be considered equal to the duration of
EVI:Build:so here it is impossible to build up a system (reference-body) from
EVI:Expression:This expression approaches infinity as the velocity _v_ approaches the
SEQ:Respect:Train
SEQ:Above:Have
EVI:Immaterial:principle immaterial to what reference-body we refer the motion. As
SEQ:Published:December
EVI:Represented:can be represented in the Maxwell-Lorentz theory only by the
SEQ:Mechanics:Able
EVI:Vague:entirely shun the vague word “space,” of which, we must honestly
SEQ:Material:Points
EVI:Quite:three-dimensional spherical space is quite analogous to the
EVI:Connection:this connection the difficulty mentioned in Section XXX finds its
EVI:Perhaps:manner to the little rods (or perhaps not at all) by the temperature of
EVI:True:exists with reference to it. This is by no means true for all
EVI:Same:Relative to _K′, the same event_ would be fixed in respect of space and
SEQ:Cannot:Read
EVI:Such:number of such systems of values, the co-ordinate values of which are
SEQ:Under:Such
SEQ:Medium:Type
SEQ:Random:Gauss
EVI:Thus:nevertheless regard the chest as being at rest. We have thus good
CON:Arrive
SEQ:Equal:Length
EVI:Photographs:obtain photographs of the solar eclipse of 29th May, 1919. The relative
SEQ:Cannot:Whether
SEQ:Simple:Plunged
SEQ:View:Lorentz
EVI:Relativity:(or in the special theory of relativity) to which I can attribute the
EVI:Purchase:purchase our emancipation from the fundamental difficulties mentioned,
EVI:State:state of motion,” cannot be maintained, because the use of rigid
EVI:Conception:This conception is in itself not very satisfactory. It is still less
EVI:Themselves:the properties in space of the gravitational fields themselves.
EVI:Referred:the “Potzdammer Platz, Berlin,” which is referred to in the original.
SEQ:Agreement:Goes
EVI:Course:direction of the velocity of revolution of the earth in the course of a
EVI:When:However, we obtain a new result of fundamental importance when we carry
SEQ:Table:Construction
EVI:Orbit:perihelial movement of the orbit of Mercury remained over, the amount
SEQ:Body:Other
SEQ:General:Neither
SEQ:Fixed:Respect
SEQ:Physically:Unique
CON:Detour
EVI:Book:as set forth in detail in the first part of this book. For the
SEQ:Before:Approximately
SEQ:Rotation:Small
SEQ:Veritable:Wonder
EVI:Behaviour:case simply by transformation of the coordinates. This behaviour is
SEQ:System:Finally
CON:Leverrier
EVI:Transformation:THE LORENTZ TRANSFORMATION
EVI:Event:only events which are localised on the _x_-axis. Any such event is
SEQ:Respect:Original
SEQ:Stars:Rotates
EVI:Exactly:preference in this sense, and they should be exactly equivalent to _K_
EVI:Motion:stone and produces its motion of fall. As we know from experience, the
SEQ:Ebook:Relativity
EVI:According:IV. The Structure of Space According to the General Theory of Relativity (supplementary to section XXXII)
EVI:Required:is the required velocity of light with respect to the carriage, and we
EVI:Position:specification of the position of the foot of the pole, supplies us with
SEQ:Body:Deviated
SEQ:Extent:Masses
CON:Believed
SEQ:Using:Return
EVI:Euclidean:quasi-Euclidean universe the average density of matter would
EVI:Necessary:apart. We already know that it is necessary to have a body of reference
EVI:Earth:indicated, which are due to the relative motion of the earth with
SEQ:Total:Covers
SEQ:Performed:Experiment
SEQ:Ever:Again
EVI:Spherical:spherical surface differs only slightly from a piece of a plane of the
EVI:Together:together with the mirrors, be moving relatively to the æther. And yet
CON:Vain
EVI:Project:active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
SEQ:Conception:Distance
EVI:Berlin:the “Potzdammer Platz, Berlin,” which is referred to in the original.
SEQ:Transformations:Corresponds
SEQ:Thus:Considered
EVI:Euclidean:XXIV. Euclidean and non-Euclidean Continuum
SEQ:Maintenance:Case
EVI:Section:Section V that all attempts of this nature led to a negative result.
SEQ:Consideration:Only
EVI:Both:light_, and that by systematically holding fast to both these laws a
EVI:Consider:themselves evident in practice. We shall not consider the motion of
SEQ:Admit:Reality
SEQ:Fact:Correlates
EVI:Attempted:systems _K_ and _K′_.[15] Newton saw this objection and attempted to
EVI:Logical:is a logical generalisation of the Cartesian co-ordinate system. It is
EVI:Archive:1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
CON:Purchase
SEQ:Referred:Reality
EVI:Earth:misdeed from the footpath notices that the stone falls to earth in a
SEQ:Theory:Requires
SEQ:Carriage:Many
EVI:Hypotheses:considerably reduced the number of independent hypotheses forming the
EVI:Distribute:so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
SEQ:Replaced:Velocity
SEQ:Mass:Longer
SEQ:Admits:Experimental
EVI:Perpendiculars:specification of the lengths of the three perpendiculars or
EVI:Means:From our point of view this means: The law governing the properties of
EVI:Emptiness:infinite region of emptiness. The stellar universe ought to be a finite
EVI:Position:to its real position.
REL:Ought:Possess
EVI:Parallel:organpipe placed with its axis parallel to the direction of travel
SEQ:Reference:Origin
CON:Started
SEQ:Systems:Essentially
SEQ:Awakened:Thoughts
EVI:Kind:It may be mentioned that there is yet another kind of curved space:
EVI:Earth:space with respect to the earth. For owing to the alteration in
SEQ:Predictions:Theory
SEQ:Continua:Example
EVI:Exceedingly:exceedingly slowly in the plane of the orbit and in the sense of the
EVI:Return:received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
SEQ:Wood:Fall
EVI:Range:surprised at this, even if I have never seen either a gas range or a
EVI:Times:We have already stated several times that classical mechanics starts
SEQ:Agree:Bound
SEQ:Have:Following
CON:Constituted
EVI:Domain:Galileian domain relative to a Galileian body of reference _K_. By
SEQ:These:Squares
SEQ:Light:Requires
CON:Presumes
SEQ:Still:Under
SEQ:Obvious:Consideration
CON:Venture
SEQ:Days:Following
SEQ:Temperature:Made
CON:General
EVI:Result:experiment gave a negative result—a fact very perplexing to physicists.
EVI:Argument:XX. The Equality of Inertial and Gravitational Mass as an Argument for the General Postulate of Relativity
SEQ:Must:Refer
CON:Royalties
SEQ:Line:Reference
EVI:Stars:stars as compared with the spectral lines of the same element produced
SEQ:Proportional:Under
EVI:Relativity:Since the introduction of the special principle of relativity has been
SEQ:Receive:Work
SEQ:Counter:Points
EVI:Compared:amount indicated above, as compared with their apparent position in the
SEQ:Coincidence:Space
EVI:Gravitational:_i.e._ domains in which gravitational fields are absent. If we now
SEQ:Ordinate:Plays
SEQ:Kind:Relation
SEQ:Then:Particular
EVI:Induction:induction. Theories are evolved and are expressed in short compass as
EVI:Relative:of light relative to the liquid and the velocity of the latter relative
SEQ:Reduced:Truth
EVI:Fact:world in this sense as a four-dimensional continuum is due to the fact
EVI:Hence:and (9), and hence also of (8) and (9). We have thus derived the
SEQ:Only:Slightly
SEQ:Bodies:Something
SEQ:Slower:Than
EVI:These:In the theoretical treatment of these electrons, we are faced with the
SEQ:Constitute:Only
CON:Heuristic
SEQ:Attributed:More
CON:Tells
SEQ:Permanently:Coincide
SEQ:Find:When
EVI:Royal:Joint Committee of the Royal and Royal Astronomical Societies, the
EVI:Greater:somewhat greater distance from the centre of the sun than corresponds
CON:Interpreting
SEQ:Experience:Question
SEQ:Must:Fasten
SEQ:Albert:Einstein
SEQ:Place:Spectral
EVI:Occur:the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
SEQ:Obtained:Particular
EVI:Field:the gravitational field under consideration is of a special kind. In
EVI:Continuum:geometry. The surface is not a Euclidean continuum with respect to the
EVI:Rest:they start off from rest or with the same initial velocity. This law,
EVI:Taken:In addition, a second photograph of the same stars is taken when the
EVI:Arena:At this juncture the theory of relativity entered the arena. As a
EVI:Like:set forth in Section V. For, like every other general law of nature,
EVI:Latter:the latter, or, more correctly, round the common centre of gravity of
SEQ:Agreement:Between
SEQ:General:Results
EVI:School:light is propagated in empty space. Every child at school knows, or
EVI:Once:once more analyse its meaning carefully.
EVI:Event:with which the event coincides in space.[4]
CON:Realized
EVI:Project:remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
SEQ:Effect:Exciting
SEQ:Invalidate:Without
EVI:Time:instead of the real quantity _t_, we can regard the space-time
EVI:Just:the body of reference. But we have just seen that this assumption is
EVI:Path:existing trajectory (lit. “path-curve”[6], but only a trajectory
SEQ:When:Lightning
EVI:Briefly:a state of uniform motion of translation relative to _K_, or, briefly,
SEQ:Less:Quickly
SEQ:Perihelion:Next
CON:Perform
CON:Giving
EVI:These:classical mechanics; these are as follows:
CON:Proportional
SEQ:Only:Events
REL:Surface:Constant
EVI:Field:produces in its surrounding a gravitational field, which acts on the
EVI:Perhelion:one perhelion and the next should exceed that corresponding to one
EVI:Surface:of the surface one and only one curve must pass. Thus a perfectly
SEQ:Even:Though
EVI:Train:framework. Similarly, we can imagine the train travelling with the
EVI:Four:as four-dimensional Cartesian co-ordinates. This was possible on the
EVI:When:of a metre. The rigid rod is thus shorter when in motion than when at
SEQ:Alone:Swamp
SEQ:Displacement:Being
SEQ:Rescued:Theory
EVI:Event:sense also a continuum; for to every event there are as many
EVI:Correspond:points on a practically rigid body always correspond to the same
SEQ:Theory:Thoroughly
EVI:Corrected:after it has been corrected for the influences mentioned above, is not
EVI:Initial:they start off from rest or with the same initial velocity. This law,
CON:Commercial
EVI:Give:so close together as to give continuity; corresponding to the material
CON:Visually
EVI:Detailed:reality the detailed distribution of matter is not uniform, the real
EVI:Light:earth. But as a consequence of the deflection of light from the star by
SEQ:Must:Satisfied
CON:Subscribe
EVI:Body:with reference to the æther, this time _T′_ is different when the body
EVI:Expansion:of this expansion which lies “only” about 109 years ago, while physical
EVI:Surface:red ought to take place for spectral lines produced at the surface of
SEQ:Should:Repeat
EVI:Statement:common-place statement than that the world in which we live is a
EVI:Appear:velocity _c_, then for this reason it would appear that another law of
EVI:Case:simultaneity, namely, that in every real case it must supply us with an
SEQ:Already:Calculate
EVI:Relationship:formal properties, shows a pronounced relationship to the
SEQ:Same:Stars
REL:Necessary:Surmount
SEQ:Under:Sole
EVI:Must:Those space-time points (events) which satisfy (1) must also satisfy
EVI:Appendix:Appendix I.
EVI:Attaches:lid, and that he attaches a body to the free end of the rope. The
SEQ:World:Sphere
EVI:Body:_M_ is the mass of the heavenly body. Thus a displacement towards the
EVI:True:concept “true” does not tally with the assertions of pure geometry,
EVI:Event:to _K′_, when the magnitudes _x, y, z, t_, of the same event with
EVI:Purposely:inherent to the subject. On the other hand, I have purposely treated
REL:Composed:Individual
SEQ:Same:Under
EVI:Nature:formulate the general laws of nature as they are obtained from
SEQ:Known:Lorentz
EVI:Mean:of the marble slab. When I say they are of equal length, I mean that
CON:Corporation
EVI:Frequently:frequently referred, cannot claim any unlimited validity. A curvature
EVI:Every:is associated with every event which is essentially capable of
SEQ:Permit:Decision
SEQ:Earth:Rigid
SEQ:Must:Imagine
SEQ:Made:Directly
EVI:Straight:state of rest or of uniform motion in a straight line. This law not
SEQ:Equations:Given
SEQ:Priority:Over
EVI:Essentially:regarded essentially as magnitudes (results of measurements) capable of
EVI:Galilei:of Galilei-Newton can be regarded as valid only for a Galileian system
SEQ:Placed:Point
CON:Mercury
EVI:Fundamental:of moving bodies follows from the two fundamental principles of the
EVI:Consideration:out the analogous consideration for a ray of light. With respect to the
EVI:General:Both these hypotheses proved to be consistent, according to the general
EVI:Heavens:sky when the sun is situated at another part of the heavens. The
SEQ:Know:Special
EVI:Ebook:Release date: October 1, 2009 [eBook #30155]
EVI:Imagine:“rigid” bodies. In this sense we _can_ imagine a spherical space.
EVI:Real:this jerk to a “real” acceleration (retardation) of the carriage. He
SEQ:Flashes:Travels
SEQ:Ought:Smile
EVI:Rays:estimated magnitude for light rays passing the sun at grazing incidence
EVI:Associate:and “straight line,” with which we are able to associate more or less
SEQ:Surface:Ratio
CON:Constitute
SEQ:Considerations:Draw
SEQ:Fictitious:Rigid
EVI:Ground:observation. If we take our stand on the ground of classical mechanics,
SEQ:Respect:Whether
EVI:Presents:with respect to the body of reference. A similar difficulty presents
EVI:Same:the same way_ as regards the influence of temperature when they are on
SEQ:Motion:Opposition
EVI:Measurement:distance _AB_. This is the basis of all measurement of length.[2]
EVI:Meaning:physicist), when I imagine that I am able to attach a meaning to the
SEQ:Orbital:Motion
SEQ:Appreciate:Argument
EVI:Section:Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
EVI:Project:paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
EVI:Latter:velocity of light _c_ in the latter transformation.
SEQ:Fulfill:Condition
SEQ:Thought:Foregoing
EVI:Nature:general law of nature were to be found which did not satisfy this
EVI:Ordinate:tenet thus: If, relative to _K_, _K′_ is a uniformly moving co-ordinate
SEQ:Agreement:Indeed
SEQ:Acceleration:Retardation
SEQ:Country:Where
SEQ:Perpetually:Passing
EVI:Points:discovered by Riemann. its points are likewise all equivalent. It
EVI:Gravitation:medium) of the type of Newton’s law of gravitation.
EVI:Time:physical definition of time which is made directly with the aid of
EVI:Motion:motion continue permanently in uniform rectilinear motion. As
EVI:Answer:possible answer seems to result from the following consideration: If
EVI:Come:Classical mechanics required to be modified before it could come into
SEQ:Draw:Curves
SEQ:Does:Tally
CON:Indefinitely
SEQ:Inertia:Holds
EVI:Heat:heat the central part of the marble slab, but not the periphery, in
EVI:Light:out the analogous consideration for a ray of light. With respect to the
SEQ:Neighbouring:Points
EVI:Assume:In short, let us assume that the simple law of the constancy of the
SEQ:Side:Square
EVI:Mollusc:be termed a “reference-mollusc”, is in the main equivalent to a
SEQ:Time:Required
EVI:Even:influenced only to an exceedingly small extent by masses even of the
EVI:Principle:general principle of relativity given in Section XVIII by an exact
EVI:Force:sitting eccentrically on the disc _K′_ is sensible of a force which
SEQ:Space:Conception
SEQ:Forms:Time
EVI:Velocity:This expression approaches infinity as the velocity _v_ approaches the
EVI:Appear:appear to be called in question. In reality we must make a subtle
SEQ:Validity:Principle
SEQ:Laws:Serve
SEQ:Concept:True
CON:Electromagnetic
SEQ:Proceed:Like
SEQ:Velocity:Requires
SEQ:Specific:Illustration
EVI:Nature:nature; the laws themselves must be quite independent of the choice of
EVI:Hypothesis:hypothesis (2). Namely, the original field equations admit a solution
SEQ:Mission:Project
EVI:According:_W_, then this is given by the equation (A) or (B), according as the
SEQ:Consideration:Present
SEQ:Grown:Electrodynamics
SEQ:Time:Know
SEQ:Relativity:Certain
EVI:World:common-place statement than that the world in which we live is a
SEQ:Transformation:Expressed
SEQ:Direction:Field
REL:Case:Space
SEQ:Simply:Have
EVI:Copyright:what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
SEQ:Magnitude:Light
EVI:Electronic:distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
SEQ:Mathematical:Condition
EVI:Without:momentary existence without duration, then it would to described in
SEQ:Simple:Consideration
EVI:Reference:two clocks arranged at rest in different places of a reference-body are
SEQ:Long:Train
EVI:Motion:there exists a reference-body _K_, whose condition of motion is such
CON:Hastening
EVI:Replaced:replaced by a more complicated law conformable to the principle of
SEQ:Equations:Galilei
EVI:Plane:a two-dimensional geometry, just as much as for a plane surface. Gauss
EVI:Recognition:consideration lies in the recognition of the fact that _the universe of
EVI:Ordinate:“space” co-ordinates and _x_4, as a “time” co-ordinate.
EVI:Lines:which is emitting spectral lines as a clock, so that the following
SEQ:Electron:Remain
REL:Behaviour:Clocks
EVI:Does:concept “true” does not tally with the assertions of pure geometry,
CON:Predict
SEQ:Rectilinear:Rotary
CON:Consequently
SEQ:Ebook:Online
EVI:Easy:so easy as it appears at first sight.
SEQ:Come:Conclusion
EVI:Many:To every point of a continuum are assigned as many numbers (Gaussian
EVI:Chest:reference-body let us imagine a spacious chest resembling a room with
EVI:Points:freely-moving material points continues to take place according to the
EVI:Expanding:I further want to remark that the theory of expanding space, together
EVI:Copyright:law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
EVI:Train:very long train travelling along the rails with the constant velocity v
EVI:Because:nevertheless, because in reality it assumes absolutely nothing about
EVI:Light:taking into account the properties of the propagation of light, we
CON:Pass
EVI:Limitations:we can free ourselves from both of these limitations without altering
CON:Classes
SEQ:Combination:Generalisation
CON:Altered
SEQ:Indicated:Relative
CON:Overlapping
EVI:Develops:empirical data, the investigator rather develops a system of thought
EVI:Chest:gravitational field exists for the man in the chest, despite the fact
SEQ:Conceptions:Motion
EVI:Velocity:the velocity _c_, the propagation relative to the system _K′_ will be
EVI:Book:despite the shortness of the book, a fair amount of patience and force
SEQ:Treatment:Know
EVI:Free:lid, and that he attaches a body to the free end of the rope. The
EVI:Distance:The distance between these points A and B is then measured by repeated
SEQ:Train:Vantage
EVI:Then:the above definition), then the criterion for the simultaneity of the
EVI:Probable:invalid for another, is _a priori_ not very probable.
EVI:System:and to the co-ordinate system. Should we be justified in saying that
EVI:Ordinate:with respect to a Galileian reference-body _K_ by the space co-ordinate
SEQ:Restricted:Sense
EVI:About:Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
EVI:Project:Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
EVI:Such:against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
CON:Externally
EVI:Validity:and replaced by another which does not assume the validity of Euclidean
EVI:Equality:same thing, on the law of the equality of inertial and gravitational
SEQ:Light:Compatible
EVI:Influence:(aberration), and to the influence of the radial components of the
EVI:Instance:as for instance by a powerful application of the brakes, then the
CON:Gratefully
EVI:Gravitational:measuring-rods and clocks is influenced by gravitational fields, _i.e._
EVI:Present:of a special kind is then present with respect to these bodies (cf.
SEQ:Then:Spherical
REL:Hands:Clocks
SEQ:Also:Deduced
EVI:Project:THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
SEQ:Whose:Condition
EVI:Same:in the same form as the space co ordinates _x_1, _x_2, _x_3.
SEQ:Taxes:Owed
EVI:Than:following pages, would perhaps have got no farther than its long
SEQ:Relativity:Whole
CON:Employees
SEQ:Rails:Railway
SEQ:Either:Material
EVI:Gutenberg:goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
CON:Sent
SEQ:Practically:Constant
EVI:Present:Up to the present, however, we have by no means maintained the
CON:Absorbed
CON:During
SEQ:Still:Second
SEQ:Tension:Rope
SEQ:Uniformity:Motion
EVI:Position:distance (line-interval), independently of any changes in position to
EVI:Attached:to be attached to it.
EVI:Equipped:[16] By means of the star photographs of two expeditions equipped by a
SEQ:Assertions:Pure
CON:Obvious
SEQ:Analysis:Physical
EVI:Cannot:itself, to which we cannot attach any meaning, but the motion with
EVI:Object:(_b_) In locating the position of the object, we make use of a number
SEQ:Sense:Statement
EVI:Continuum:of treating time as an independent continuum. As a matter of fact,
SEQ:Proceed:Farther
SEQ:Broad:Generality
SEQ:Space:Around
EVI:Strokes:When we say that the lightning strokes _A_ and _B_ are simultaneous
SEQ:Based:General
EVI:Adjustments:making the adjustments required for the taking of the photographs, and
EVI:Almost:other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
CON:Very
EVI:Might:Now we might easily suppose that the existence of a gravitational field
CON:Demonstrate
EVI:Show:But the considerations of Sections XXV and XXVI show us the way to
SEQ:Description:Events
EVI:Derived:electric fields can be derived correctly from electrostatic
SEQ:Upwards:Uniformly
EVI:Means:to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
EVI:Gravitational:same thing, on the law of the equality of inertial and gravitational
EVI:Refund:of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
EVI:Ordinate:to a second co-ordinate system _K′_ provided that the latter is
EVI:Theory:XXXII. The Structure of Space According to the General Theory of Relativity
EVI:Bodies:description of natural processes, neither of the reference bodies _K,
SEQ:Shape:Follows
EVI:Each:translational motion relative to each other. Relative to other
EVI:Meet:nature with which we meet in physical statements.
EVI:Bodies:rigid bodies and clocks, which shall be of such a nature that
EVI:Motion:a question of detecting or of describing the motion involved, it is in
EVI:Clocks:purpose we suppose that clocks of identical construction are placed at
EVI:Relativity:relativity,” which we have taken as the basis of our investigations.
SEQ:Continuum:Associate
SEQ:Mechanics:Without
SEQ:Make:Only
SEQ:Imagine:Rigid
SEQ:Masses:Even
SEQ:Compliance:Requirements
EVI:Apply:If we apply quite similar considerations to light rays which are being
EVI:Begin:with the observer then begin to move “upwards” with a uniformly
EVI:Small:array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
SEQ:Treated:Space
EVI:Planets:and the action of the other planets under consideration. Thus, if we
CON:Greatest
EVI:Laws:referred. The resulting relationship takes for granted that the laws of
EVI:Proceed:proportionally to the distance from the centre as we proceed outwards.
SEQ:Dense:System
SEQ:Express:Fact
EVI:Feeling:perhaps this feeling of proud certainty would leave you immediately if
EVI:Table:forth in the following table of results:
EVI:Basis:solution of the difficulty was the right one. But on the basis of the
SEQ:Plane:Geometry
SEQ:Round:Describe
EVI:Central:curved universe possessing central symmetry.
EVI:Geometry:three-dimensional “space” of (Euclidean) analytical geometry. If we
SEQ:Joining:Planet
EVI:Cartesian:the position of defining Cartesian co-ordinates directly with their
CON:Objection
SEQ:Something:Classical
SEQ:Produces:Surrounding
REL:Belong:Every
EVI:Time:which belongs to two adjacent points of the four-dimensional space-time
SEQ:Discovered:Some
EVI:Field:field itself. Let us consider this for a moment.
SEQ:Should:Load
EVI:Physics:been assumed in physics that the statement of time had an absolute
EVI:Terms:Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™
EVI:Velocity:the embankment). We denote this velocity by the symbol _W_, and we then
REL:Volunteers:Employees
EVI:Ordinate:accordance with the special theory of relativity, certain co-ordinate
EVI:Each:adjacent clocks (in space) differ from each other by an indefinitely
EVI:Conclusion:can thus as a rough approximation arrive at a conclusion as to the
SEQ:Shall:Introduce
EVI:Those:domains, _i.e._ to those in which no gravitational field exists. In
SEQ:Measure:Customary
SEQ:Galileian:Reference
EVI:Nature:equations which express the general laws of nature pass over into
EVI:Time:are thus led also to a definition of “time” in physics. For this
EVI:Even:even if I have never before seen a gas flame. For I can only say that
EVI:Intuition:process; for it slurs over the important part played by intuition and
CON:Entirely
CON:Physically
EVI:Enters:to the theory of relativity, the “time” _x_4, enters into natural laws
SEQ:Other:Motions
SEQ:Every:Gravitational
SEQ:Work:Discovered
EVI:Mass:of force” which come from infinity and terminate in a mass m is
SEQ:Circle:Spherical
SEQ:Same:According
SEQ:Treated:Branch
EVI:Three:Euclidean three-dimensional space, then there exists for this surface
SEQ:Happen:Themselves
EVI:Project:free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
EVI:Disturbing:disturbing influences exerted on Mercury by the remaining planets, it
CON:Train
EVI:Measuring:measuring-rods. In doing so, it is his intention to arrive at exact
EVI:Reference:simultaneity). Every reference-body (co-ordinate system) has its own
EVI:Systems:systems _K_ and _K′_.[15] Newton saw this objection and attempted to
CON:Rapid
SEQ:Light:Must
EVI:Ebook:﻿The Project Gutenberg eBook of Relativity: The Special and General Theory
CON:Provisional
EVI:Deviated:heavenly body would be deviated towards the latter. For a ray of light
EVI:Line:uniformly in a straight line with respect to a co-ordinate system _K_,
EVI:Value:co-ordinate planes, and with regard to time by a time value _t_.
SEQ:Finally:Light
EVI:Relativity:of relativity.
EVI:Equipment:cannot be read by your equipment.
EVI:Description:of its merits for the description of natural phenomena) in calling this
EVI:Difficulty:Part from the difficulty discussed in Section XXI, there is a second
SEQ:Apply:Quite
EVI:Distance:mark off the distance _S_ time after time until we reach _B_. The
SEQ:Where:Newton
SEQ:Considered:Some
CON:Combine
CON:Holds
SEQ:Clearness:Return
SEQ:Lays:Small
EVI:Leave:shall leave it here at present, and revert to it only towards the end
CON:Committee
EVI:Galileian:transition from one Galileian system to another, which is moving
EVI:Case:be commissioned to determine by observations whether in the actual case
CON:Behave
REL:Displacements:Lines
EVI:Lines:Suppose we draw lines or stretch strings in all directions from a
CON:Orientation
EVI:Relativity:no avail in the general theory of relativity. The motion of clocks is
SEQ:Long:Convinced
EVI:Systems:two systems.
SEQ:Newton:Kepler
SEQ:Read:Before
SEQ:Sphere:Universe
EVI:Measurement:physics of measurement this is attained by the application of the
EVI:Natural:incompatible with the most natural definition of simultaneity; if we
EVI:Visible:in mechanics, which can be used in mechanical description. The visible
CON:Celestial
CON:Recently
SEQ:Even:Popular
EVI:Replace:acknowledge, we cannot form the slightest conception, and we replace it
EVI:Such:such a nature that numerical values differing very slightly from each
REL:Correspond:Adjacent
EVI:Exists:exists with reference to it. This is by no means true for all
EVI:Need:Unlike the first, this latter statement need not of necessity hold _a
EVI:World:The reader may think that such a description of the world would be
EVI:Relativity:GENERAL POSTULATE OF RELATIVITY
EVI:Exceeded:exceeded by any real body.
EVI:Variable:in place of _t_, as time-variable. If, in accordance with this, we
EVI:Reference:reference-body as regards the domain considered, and the results of the
EVI:Rods:But if rods of every kind (_i.e._ of every material) were to behave _in
CON:Feel
EVI:Distance:distance (line-interval), independently of any changes in position to
EVI:Ones:testing-rod. To this square we add similar ones, each of which has one
EVI:Body:by “motion relative to a practically rigid body of reference.” The
SEQ:Have:Assumed
EVI:Laws:formulation of natural laws. Our course was more on the following
EVI:Judged:of the rod as judged from _K′_ would have been
SEQ:Planet:Result
SEQ:Every:Motion
SEQ:Conformable:Principle
SEQ:Geometry:Surface
EVI:Theory:that in physics, before the advent of the theory of relativity, time
EVI:Observer:only I knew that the light by means of which the observer at _M_
SEQ:Note:Equation
EVI:Equal:equal to the total area of the whole “world-sphere.”
EVI:Satisfied:whether these propositions are satisfied for those real things we have
EVI:Light:satisfactory because it leads to the result that the light emitted by
EVI:Measures:If, then, the observer first measures the circumference of the disc
EVI:Special:as follows: The special theory of relativity has reference to Galileian
EVI:Simply:means of purely theoretical operations (_i.e._ simply by calculation)
EVI:Postulate:In this way we satisfy the postulate of the constancy of the velocity
EVI:Being:that motion. the contracted length being proportional to the expression
CON:Processing
EVI:Considerations:the considerations of Section VI in order to remove the apparent
EVI:Consistent:do not believe we ought to if we wish to remain consistent; we must
CON:Keeping
SEQ:Authorised:Translation
EVI:Just:motion to the body attached to it. The tension of the rope is just
EVI:Analogous:produced in an analogous manner terrestrially (_i.e._ by the same kind
EVI:Michelson:system of Michelson and Morley is not shortened, but it _is_ shortened
EVI:Curvature:acceleration or curvature corresponds to the influence on the moving
SEQ:Choose:Carriage
EVI:Positions:example, of seeing in a “distance” two marked positions on a
EVI:Able:able to state a reason why one of them is to be preferred to the
CON:Judged
EVI:Permission:copyright restrictions so cannot be added without the permission of the
EVI:Upwards:“upwards,” in order to arrive at the corner of the square under
EVI:Constitutes:in vacuo, which constitutes one of the two fundamental assumptions in
SEQ:Maxwell:Lorentz
EVI:Project:Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
SEQ:Agree:Comply
EVI:System:to a second co-ordinate system _K′_ provided that the latter is
EVI:Expressed:Expressed in an abstract manner we may say: If a mass _m_ is moving
SEQ:Construction:Considered
CON:Except
SEQ:Equations:Determine
SEQ:Kind:Density
CON:Results
EVI:Gutenberg:same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
SEQ:Exceedingly:Slowly
EVI:Shall:theory of relativity they have been united into one law. We shall now
REL:Methods:Geometry
EVI:Reference:domains to _non-Galileian_ reference-bodies also. A gravitational field
SEQ:Distances:Succeeded
EVI:Treated:treated in detail and with unsurpassable lucidity by Helmholtz and
EVI:Take:law, the motion would still take place in such a manner that the
CON:Your
EVI:Following:Before we deal with this, we shall introduce the following incidental
CON:Thankfully
CON:Lofty
EVI:View:conformably to this point of view.
EVI:Kepler:Newton-Kepler motion of a planet in its orbit should take place, and in
EVI:Line:then it will also be moving uniformly and in a straight line relative
REL:Regard:Time
SEQ:Must:Hold
EVI:Field:to wit, the curvature of light rays by the gravitational field of the
EVI:Planes:co-ordinate planes, and with regard to time by a time value _t_.
SEQ:These:Last
SEQ:Given:Preference
EVI:Respect:propagation of light must necessarily hold with respect to the
EVI:Obsolete:computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
EVI:Possible:theory of relativity, is in general not possible in space-time
SEQ:Pole:Supplies
EVI:Corresponding:are provided with numbers in a corresponding manner, and they may
EVI:Mirror:mirror to the other and back again, if the whole system be at rest with
EVI:Gravitation:solution of the problem of gravitation.
CON:Whatsoever
SEQ:Constants:Obtain
SEQ:Light:Second
EVI:Very:very long train travelling along the rails with the constant velocity v
EVI:Imagine:hope of success in such an attempt; Let us imagine ourselves
SEQ:Such:Thing
EVI:Line:line (_e.g._ along the floor of the carriage) as many times as is
SEQ:Values:Radius
EVI:Produced:the same spectral lines when they are produced by a terrestrial source
SEQ:Ought:Manifest
SEQ:Certainly:Right
SEQ:Accessible:Widest
SEQ:Rules:Forth
EVI:Assumption:the body of reference. But we have just seen that this assumption is
EVI:Holding:railway-carriage window is holding one of them, and the man on the
EVI:Simultaneity:particular point of the train. Also the definition of simultaneity can
REL:Results:Physics
SEQ:Line:Pedestrian
EVI:Have:Perhaps the reader will wonder why we have placed our “beings” on a
EVI:Large:infinitely large gravitational fields being produced. We thus free
EVI:Then:does not hold, then the Galileian co-ordinate systems _K, K′, K″_,
SEQ:Relativity:Major
SEQ:Position:Point
EVI:Regarded:these bodies of reference are to be regarded as Galileian
EVI:Mercury:seconds of arc per century for the planet Mercury, but for the other
CON:Factor
EVI:Following:which is emitting spectral lines as a clock, so that the following
EVI:Providing:1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
EVI:Have:even if I have never before seen a gas flame. For I can only say that
EVI:What:something being what we call a “magnetic field.” In its turn this
SEQ:Your:Efforts
SEQ:Euclidean:Continuum
EVI:Steam:this bluish something will cause the emission of the steam, or at least
EVI:Same:carriage, traverses the same distance also with respect to the
EVI:Fact:an encounter is expressed in the fact that the two lines which
EVI:Lorentz:Thus we have obtained the Lorentz transformation for events on the
SEQ:Reaching:Them
SEQ:Noble:Building
SEQ:Straight:Lines
SEQ:Knows:Propagation
SEQ:Disc:Invisible
EVI:Theory:theory of relativity. As being of particular importance, I mention here
SEQ:Chest:Reference
EVI:Another:another conclusion from the theory, one which can easily be derived
CON:Requires
EVI:Half:other half by the geometrical modification (“curvature”) of space
EVI:Fourth:of the first and fourth equations of the _Lorentz transformation_.
EVI:Character:The most important result of a general character to which the special
SEQ:Carriage:Supposed
SEQ:Brilliant:Theoretical
SEQ:Possessing:Names
SEQ:Clearness:Physical
SEQ:Means:Purely
EVI:Must:the lightning must always strike the places _A_ and _B_ simultaneously,
CON:Occupies
EVI:Offers:approach us with offers to donate.
REL:Clocks:Material
CON:Fundamentally
REL:Able:Regard
SEQ:Number:Independent
SEQ:Description:Tied
SEQ:Replaces:Description
EVI:Simultaneously:are simultaneously (in the above sense) the same. Under these
SEQ:Than:Result
EVI:Same:are simultaneously (in the above sense) the same. Under these
SEQ:Section:Xxii
SEQ:Event:When
EVI:Satisfactory:satisfactory because it leads to the result that the light emitted by
SEQ:Universe:Room
REL:Come:Deal
SEQ:Light:Possesses
SEQ:Extending:Principle
EVI:Found:[10] Fizeau found
SEQ:Drift:Earth
EVI:Difficult:it is difficult to form an opinion as to its existence. Whereas Grebe
SEQ:Distribute:Work
EVI:Cause:the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
CON:Support
EVI:Relative:state of motion is such that the law of inertia holds relative to it is
SEQ:Plane:Circular
SEQ:Subject:Trademark
SEQ:Ideas:Involved
EVI:Admit:rather admit that his mode of grasping the situation violates neither
CON:Enterprise
SEQ:Deletions:Project
SEQ:Little:Consideration
EVI:Relative:If every ray of light is propagated relative to the embankment with the
CON:Priority
EVI:Written:written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
SEQ:Right:Basis
EVI:Either:ideas of either the special or the general theory of relativity, I
SEQ:Accelerated:Body
EVI:Theory:theory of relativity the method of interpretation is incomparably more
EVI:Located:are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws
EVI:Three:of thought. We are accustomed further to regard three points as being
EVI:Moving:than 1, since, according to Section XII, moving bodies suffer a
SEQ:Clothes:Minkowski
EVI:Process:the process, has, as a consequence, its energy increased by an amount
SEQ:Motion:Involved
EVI:Devised:In one of the most notable of these attempts Michelson devised a method
SEQ:Lattice:Construction
EVI:Numerically:the embankment through a distance _v_ equal numerically to the velocity
SEQ:Embankment:Suppose
EVI:Laws:between reference-bodies _K_ relative to which the recognised “laws of
EVI:Expression:from which, by division, the expression
EVI:Lorentz:Maxwell-Lorentz theory so plausible, that the latter would have been
SEQ:Light:Demanded
SEQ:Himself:Fact
EVI:Line:are in a position to say: The stone traverses a straight line relative
SEQ:Mass:Likewise
REL:Position:Time
EVI:Shorter:rest, and the more quickly it is moving, the shorter is the rod. For
EVI:Transformation:the law of transformation for the rectangular co-ordinates _x, y, z_
EVI:Perceptible:enough to make themselves perceptible as a change in the inertial mass
EVI:Credits:Credits: Robert Hux
EVI:Velocity:velocity _v_ to be continued across the whole of space, so that every
EVI:Indirectly:The action of the earth on the stone takes place indirectly. The earth
SEQ:Enables:Derive
EVI:Satisfied:concerns the investigation of the laws satisfied by the gravitational
SEQ:Dimensional:Geometry
SEQ:Deciding:Factor
CON:Expression
SEQ:Conditions:Consider
EVI:Physical:of this expansion which lies “only” about 109 years ago, while physical
EVI:Live:common-place statement than that the world in which we live is a
SEQ:Other:Investigators
SEQ:Becomes:Imaginary
EVI:What:what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
EVI:Near:be as near as we choose to the respective values of the co-ordinates
CON:Differing
EVI:Anyone:clothes. Minkowski’s work is doubtless difficult of access to anyone
REL:Ready:Drop
EVI:Complete:(_N.B._—One complete revolution corresponds to the angle 2π in the
EVI:Body:indeed every other process) to a rigid reference-body (co-ordinate
EVI:Geometrical:According to the general theory of relativity, the geometrical
CON:Julius
EVI:Supplementing:supplementing them by the relations
EVI:Seen:predicted effect can be seen clearly from the accompanying diagram. If
EVI:Clearly:clearly follows from the equations of the Lorentz transformation, for
EVI:Unbounded:THE POSSIBILITY OF A “FINITE” AND YET “UNBOUNDED” UNIVERSE
SEQ:General:Gravitation
EVI:Being:nature of the universe as a whole, if we treat the matter as being at
EVI:General:*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK RELATIVITY: THE SPECIAL AND GENERAL THEORY ***
CON:Considerably
EVI:Unification:briefly consider how this unification came about, and what meaning is
EVI:Point:point, and mark off from each of these the distance _r_ with a
SEQ:Noted:Observer
EVI:Valid:of Galilei-Newton can be regarded as valid only for a Galileian system
SEQ:Must:Grant
EVI:Fully:farther until he is fully convinced on this point.)
CON:Became
EVI:Nothing:they are nothing more than the expression of the universal validity of
EVI:Time:is variable with respect to space and time.[17] The character of this
SEQ:Infinite:Number
EVI:Seen:surprised at this, even if I have never seen either a gas range or a
EVI:Dimensional:This four-dimensional “world” bears a close similarity to the
EVI:Influence:deflection of these rays under the influence of electric and magnetic
SEQ:Since:Equations
EVI:Every:space co-ordinates as opposed to the time co-ordinate. Every point on
SEQ:Also:Applicable
EVI:Recent:been confirmed with great precision in recent years.
SEQ:Compliance:Particular
EVI:Absorbed:absorbed the energy _E_0.
SEQ:Astronomers:Working
EVI:Relative:relative to a system of co-ordinates rigidly attached to the ground
SEQ:Branch:Physics
EVI:Physics:that in physics, before the advent of the theory of relativity, time
EVI:Calculation:calculation, deviations from the theory of Newton make their
EVI:Broad:_mechanics_. But that a principle of such broad generality should hold
SEQ:Geometry:Itself
REL:Problem:Section
CON:Admit
EVI:Propagation:able to show that the velocity of propagation of light cannot depend on
SEQ:Detecting:Effect
EVI:Carriage:the carriage, we introduce a point moving relatively to the co-ordinate
EVI:Light:of rays of light can only take place when the velocity of propagation
EVI:Continue:line or continue in a state of rest. We have also repeatedly emphasised
EVI:Have:definition of time. We have to imagine each of these clocks fixed at a
SEQ:Have:Already
SEQ:Theory:Newton
EVI:Since:still we must grant it a considerable measure of “truth,” since it
EVI:Expend:1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
EVI:Whole:equal to the total area of the whole “world-sphere.”
SEQ:Consequently:Comes
EVI:Ratio:same for a given gravitational field, then the ratio of the
SEQ:Spherical:Beings
SEQ:Rest:Other
EVI:Electrodynamical:investigations of H. A. Lorentz on the electrodynamical and optical
SEQ:Doing:Force
EVI:Also:Of course this feature of the velocity _c_ as a limiting velocity also
CON:Cent
SEQ:Contained:Electrodynamics
EVI:Surely:that suggests itself to us is surely this: As regards space (and time)
EVI:Special:of the method used in discussing the special theory, and as long as the
REL:Payments:Credit
EVI:Original:while the original “static” hypothesis of space yielded the closure
REL:Impossible:Choose
SEQ:Required:Propagation
EVI:Respect:executing a uniform translatory motion with respect to _K_. In
EVI:Point:particular point of the train. Also the definition of simultaneity can
EVI:Individual:astronomy makes it appear likely that the development of individual
REL:Interpretation:Distance
SEQ:Lightning:Must
EVI:Diameter:surface, the ratio of the circumference of a circle to its diameter,
EVI:Free:we can free ourselves from both of these limitations without altering
SEQ:Real:Acceleration
SEQ:Respect:Represents
SEQ:Difficult:Form
EVI:Cost:other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
EVI:Relativity:the general theory of relativity, the general law of the gravitational
SEQ:Obviously:Immaterial
EVI:Rods:measuring-rods, are free to move in a _plane_. For them nothing exists
SEQ:Should:Thus
EVI:Unity:structure the largest possible logical unity. The practice, for
SEQ:Exists:Relative
EVI:Deal:Before we deal with this, we shall introduce the following incidental
EVI:Time:an imaginary time coordinate); the Lorentz transformation corresponds
SEQ:Reason:Appear
SEQ:Kind:Motion
SEQ:Considerations:Time
EVI:Universe:Part III: Considerations on the Universe as a Whole
EVI:Respect:also applicable to non-Euclidean continua, but only when, with respect
EVI:Previously:mechanical behaviour is different from that of the case previously
EVI:Resulting:resulting when the motion is parallel to these planes. Although the
EVI:Position:the position of defining Cartesian co-ordinates directly with their
EVI:Stipulation:This stipulation contains a further physical hypothesis, the validity
EVI:Latter:Now, as judged from the disc, the latter is in a gravitational field of
CON:Struggle
CON:Disproved
CON:Newton
CON:Assuming
CON:Coincides
EVI:Theory:If we confine the application of the theory to the case where the
EVI:Owed:you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
SEQ:Used:Description
EVI:Rigid:small amount. This non-rigid reference-body, which might appropriately
SEQ:Following:Discussion
CON:Specified
SEQ:Impossible:Choose
EVI:Attraction:introduce the hypothesis that the force of attraction between mutually
EVI:Time:and a time co-ordinate, the time value _t_. The “world” is in this
EVI:First:supply us with the same result as the first. Thus the length of the
EVI:Repulsions:repulsions, unless there are forces of another kind operating between
CON:Ocean
SEQ:Present:Time
SEQ:Then:Especial
CON:Finally
EVI:Must:do not believe we ought to if we wish to remain consistent; we must
EVI:Relativity:very much in favour of the validity of the principle of relativity.
SEQ:Correspond:Adjacent
SEQ:Definitely:Traced
EVI:Independent:independent of the diameter of the circle. On their spherical surface
SEQ:Brought:About
EVI:Increases:[18] The field disappears at the centre of the disc and increases
EVI:Over:After thinking the matter over for some time you then offer the
REL:Point:Fact
SEQ:Place:Imagine
SEQ:Depicted:Here
SEQ:Light:Respect
SEQ:Reason:Shall
SEQ:Values:Common
EVI:Physics:absolute angular measure customary in physics, and the above expression
SEQ:Shall:Again
SEQ:Measuring:Free
EVI:Stars:the following way. As seen from the earth, certain fixed stars appear
CON:Manipulations
SEQ:Then:Discarded
EVI:State:_i.e._ a rigid body the state of motion of which is so chosen that the
EVI:Relativity:return later. If the principle of relativity (in the restricted sense)
EVI:Maintained:Up to the present, however, we have by no means maintained the
EVI:Reference:in a “Galileian” fashion under suitable choice of reference-body,
CON:Shun
SEQ:Essentially:Capable
SEQ:Mathematician:Friedman
SEQ:Respect:Every
SEQ:Importance:Galileian
CON:Number
EVI:Picture:matter everywhere; it would present to us that unsatisfactory picture
EVI:Obtained:on the Galileian transformation we should not have obtained a
CON:Deciding
SEQ:Assistance:Need
REL:Dilemma:Section
EVI:Also:whole not only moving in any way whatsoever, but which also suffer
EVI:Proposition:most out-of-the-way proposition of this science to be untrue. But
REL:Analogous:Those
REL:States:Motion
EVI:Fourth:sides of the fourth square are already laid, and, as a consequence, the
EVI:Structure:But speculations on the structure of the universe also move in quite
EVI:Exist:gravitational potential does not exist, then the general theory of
SEQ:Work:Phrase
EVI:Only:hundredths of a millimetre only. Thus great accuracy was necessary in
CON:Equality
EVI:Correspond:an infinitely large number to be drawn, all of which correspond to real
SEQ:Chest:Gravitational
EVI:Construction:themselves clearly until this construction is extended over a
SEQ:Determined:Points
EVI:Sense:in this sense we understand its validity for a construction with rule
CON:Electrified
SEQ:System:Four
SEQ:Satisfied:Same
EVI:Light:this question of such a nature that the law of transmission of light
CON:Joint
SEQ:These:Limitations
EVI:Those:follow from those axioms, _i.e._ they are proven. A proposition is then
SEQ:System:Provided
EVI:Regarded:regarded essentially as magnitudes (results of measurements) capable of
EVI:Light:propagation of light _in vacuo_ and the principle of relativity
SEQ:Support:Electromagnetic
EVI:Adhere:If we desire to adhere to our “old-time” three-dimensional view of
EVI:Smallness:solution. Owing to the smallness of the effect in the case of the sun,
SEQ:Dimensional:Euclidean
EVI:Moving:But the metre-rod is moving with the velocity _v_ relative to _K_. It
EVI:Distance:to the defined “size” or “distance,” small parts of the continuum under
EVI:Domain:same domain referred to a second body of reference _K′_, which is
EVI:Work:(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
SEQ:Analytical:Geometry
SEQ:Have:Deal
SEQ:Recent:Most
EVI:Phenomena:phenomena (_e.g._ of light).
EVI:Methuen:Original publication: Methuen & Co Ltd,, 1924
CON:Damaged
SEQ:Domains:Those
EVI:Length:direction of its length with a velocity _v_ is
SEQ:Observer:Applies
EVI:Chest:consider it with reference to the accelerated chest (reference-body
SEQ:Linked:Project
EVI:Things:with things called “straight lines,” to each of which is ascribed the
SEQ:Discovers:Hook
EVI:Influences:known that a gravitational field influences the movement of bodies in
CON:Slovenliness
SEQ:Must:Supply
EVI:Test:crucial test in favour of the theory of relativity, for the
SEQ:Theories:Newtonian
EVI:Rest:nevertheless regard the chest as being at rest. We have thus good
EVI:Limited:relativity) we shall see that this “truth” is limited, and we shall
CON:Discovered
SEQ:Outwards:Away
EVI:Time:“space” co-ordinates and _x_4, as a “time” co-ordinate.
EVI:Already:We have already stated several times that classical mechanics starts
EVI:Either:either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
EVI:Relativity:V. Relativity and the Problem of Space
SEQ:Known:Gravitational
EVI:Mechanics:As is well known, the fundamental law of the mechanics of
SEQ:Spaces:Without
SEQ:Everyone:Disdain
SEQ:Second:Advance
EVI:Study:fields, we can study the law of motion of these particles very exactly.
EVI:Under:and the action of the other planets under consideration. Thus, if we
EVI:Property:_x, y, z_, of the first point. In virtue of the latter property we
SEQ:Linear:Homogeneous
EVI:Statement:statement of simultaneity. (I would ask the reader not to proceed
EVI:World:most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
EVI:Length:measuring-rod will not experience a shortening in length, as judged
SEQ:Quite:Naturally
SEQ:Being:Arrived
CON:Conclusiveness
EVI:During:there exists (during the period of application of the brakes) a
CON:Asserts
SEQ:Mass:Natural
EVI:Theory:At this juncture the theory of relativity entered the arena. As a
SEQ:Retarded:Motion
SEQ:Exact:Formulation
EVI:Medium:medium. If, for instance, a magnet attracts a piece of iron, we cannot
EVI:Answer:I ask you whether there is sense in this statement, you will answer my
EVI:According:Both these hypotheses proved to be consistent, according to the general
EVI:Metre:of a metre. The rigid rod is thus shorter when in motion than when at
EVI:Means:dials. It is just the same in the case of space-measurements by means
SEQ:Series:Obtain
SEQ:More:Inclined
EVI:Ellipse:Newton’s theory, a planet moves round the sun in an ellipse, which
EVI:Something:with the distance from operative bodies. It is something like this: The
EVI:Regard:nebulae. This can be interpreted in regard to our present knowledge
SEQ:Without:Reluctance
EVI:Points:the Gaussian co-ordinates _u_ = 3, _v_ = 1. Two neighbouring points _P_
SEQ:Action:Earth
EVI:Coordinates:case simply by transformation of the coordinates. This behaviour is
SEQ:Time:Perhaps
EVI:Ordinate:system of co-ordinate values, _x_1, _x_2, _x_3, _x_4, in common. After
EVI:Suffer:than 1, since, according to Section XII, moving bodies suffer a
CON:Assumes
EVI:Angle:such away, that the angle described by the radius sun-planet between
EVI:Circle:considerable, the greater is the radius of the circle in comparison
SEQ:Foundation:Website
CON:Grossly
EVI:Receive:gravitational field receive an acceleration, _which does not in the
EVI:Ordinate:transition of one Gauss co-ordinate system into another.
EVI:Electrostatic:electric fields can be derived correctly from electrostatic
EVI:Interpretation:interpretation can be obtained only if we recognise the following fact:
SEQ:Section:Moving
SEQ:Planes:Regard
EVI:Choose:or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
CON:Fields
SEQ:Least:Circle
EVI:Represent:order correctly to represent the diminution of gravitational action
CON:Longer
EVI:Also:of inertial and gravitational mass; but it has also already explained a
EVI:Postulate:GENERAL POSTULATE OF RELATIVITY
SEQ:Body:Such
REL:System:Stars
SEQ:Since:Electrical
SEQ:Happy:Hours
REL:Considered:Some
SEQ:Correspondingly:Powerful
SEQ:Simultaneously:Above
EVI:Hypothesis:hypothesis (1) without introducing the less natural cosmological term
SEQ:Advent:Theory
CON:Attain
EVI:Take:necessary to take him from the one marked point to the other. Then the
SEQ:Fully:Convinced
EVI:Finite:finite. In fact, the theory supplies us with a simple connection[25]
EVI:Argument:result we have gained a powerful argument for a generalised postulate
EVI:Move:with the observer then begin to move “upwards” with a uniformly
EVI:Revolution:complete revolution by an amount given by
EVI:Always:are always simultaneous (in the sense of the above definition).
EVI:Light:heavenly body would be deviated towards the latter. For a ray of light
CON:Aroused
REL:Electrodynamics:Maxwell
EVI:Generalisation:[17] This follows from a generalisation of the discussion in Section
CON:Conformably
EVI:Drop:If we drop these hypotheses, then the dilemma of Section VII
EVI:Planes:planes” (“co-ordinate system”). A co-ordinate system _K_ then
SEQ:Differs:Zero
EVI:Maximum:grows from a minimum to a maximum, and then decreases again to a
SEQ:Start:Places
EVI:Practically:the sun (_S_) were not present, a star which is practically infinitely
SEQ:Group:Density
EVI:Viewed:performed, viewed, copied or distributed:
EVI:Interested:general scientific and philosophical point of view, are interested in
SEQ:Mentioned:Seconds
CON:United
EVI:Extraneous:making use of the theory of relativity—appears extraneous.
EVI:Velocity:did not possess this velocity, then he would remain permanently at M,
EVI:Curvature:is a “surface of constant curvature.”
SEQ:Example:Learn
EVI:Field:gravitational field _G_, which was derived from the Galileian special
EVI:Carriage:embankment and the railway carriage, we can express the fact of the
EVI:Follows:[17] This follows from a generalisation of the discussion in Section
CON:Opportunity
EVI:Holds:points holds relatively to it.
EVI:Limited:1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
SEQ:Whatsoever:Cause
CON:Pains
EVI:Domain:with such exactness in one domain of phenomena, and yet should be
SEQ:Result:Opposed
EVI:Attainable:attainable at the present time. The sole exception is Mercury, the
SEQ:Foundation:Address
SEQ:Root:Things
EVI:Thus:first approximation the Newtonian theory. Thus the latter theory is
EVI:Ourselves:we can free ourselves from both of these limitations without altering
CON:Contraction
CON:Attaches
SEQ:What:Follows
SEQ:Regarded:Measure
EVI:Promoting:that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
SEQ:Discovered:Riemann
SEQ:Mass:Against
SEQ:Comply:Paragraph
EVI:Remain:did not possess this velocity, then he would remain permanently at M,
CON:Depicted
EVI:Bodies:thus: A body removed sufficiently far from other bodies continues in a
EVI:Developed:latter been developed trom electrodynamics as an astoundingly simple
SEQ:Correctness:Otherwise
SEQ:Relatively:Small
CON:Printed
SEQ:Stated:Following
SEQ:Motion:Chest
EVI:Light:(_b_) Deflection of Light by a Gravitational Field
EVI:Points:unique in possessing the property that all points on it are equivalent.
EVI:Situated:situated on a straight line, if their apparent positions can be made to
SEQ:Respect:Second
EVI:Should:determine the length of the pole we should have required in order to
EVI:Then:_x_-axis with respect to _K_, then we should have found that the length
EVI:Farther:definite law, as we proceed farther and farther away from the earth.
EVI:Influence:acceleration or curvature corresponds to the influence on the moving
EVI:Deduction:examination of the correctness or otherwise of this deduction is a
EVI:Ticks:transformation give for these two ticks:
EVI:Downward:experiences a downward force in the gravitational field, and this is
SEQ:Circular:Disc
SEQ:Regards:Domain
EVI:Consequence:be clear even to the non-mathematician that, as a consequence of this
EVI:Constant:very long train travelling along the rails with the constant velocity v
EVI:These:transformation give for these two ticks:
EVI:Light:hypothesis about the law of propagation of light; it must certainly be
CON:Exclusive
EVI:Fundamental:very exact grasp of this work in order to understand the fundamental
EVI:Lorentz:XI. The Lorentz Transformation
EVI:Hence:Hence it cannot be contended that the man in walking travels the
EVI:Total:equal to the total area of the whole “world-sphere.”
EVI:Relativity:of the principle of relativity implies the _necessity_ of the law of
EVI:Ordinates:be as near as we choose to the respective values of the co-ordinates
SEQ:Primitive:Method
SEQ:Singular:Reason
EVI:Entity:with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
CON:Increase
EVI:Three:speak of a “continuum,” and owing to the fact that there are three
EVI:Relations:In this case relations hold in the four-dimensional continuum which are
EVI:Composed:sense. For it is composed of individual events, each of which is
EVI:Fictitious:Euclidean properties; thus the fictitious rigid body of reference is of
EVI:During:necessarily come into disorder during the heating, because the little
EVI:Found:On the basis of the general theory of relativity, it is found that the
SEQ:Sense:Imagine
EVI:Properties:formal properties, shows a pronounced relationship to the
EVI:Moving:On the other hand, all coordinate systems _K′_ moving relatively to _K_
EVI:Definition:incompatible with the most natural definition of simultaneity; if we
EVI:Providing:or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
EVI:Fact:finite. In fact, the theory supplies us with a simple connection[25]
EVI:Respect:respect to the carriage must not be considered equal to the duration of
EVI:Same:same thing, on the law of the equality of inertial and gravitational
EVI:Other:two theories differ from each other. As an example, a case of general
EVI:Systems:_K′_. For the relative orientation in space of the co-ordinate systems
EVI:Gutenberg:facility: www.gutenberg.org.
EVI:Ends:one can be laid on any other without the ends overlapping. We next lay
EVI:Point:train. Let _M′_ be the mid-point of the distance _A_ → _B_ on the
EVI:Between:between the position of the clock and the centre of the disc by φ,
EVI:More:attraction between two masses diminishes more rapidly than would result
SEQ:Access:Distributing
EVI:Thus:propositions is thus reduced to one of the “truth” of the axioms. Now
SEQ:Case:Simply
EVI:Showed:A few years later Hubble showed, by a special investigation of the
CON:While
SEQ:Carriage:Changed
EVI:Itself:itself as reference-body (co-ordinate system). An observer in the train
EVI:What:in consequence of what we have seen above.
SEQ:Line:Time
EVI:Surface:value of _v_ belong to every point on the surface of the table. We call
SEQ:Right:Replacement
SEQ:Beam:Light
SEQ:Uniform:Takes
EVI:Satisfactorily:satisfactorily than without it, and this applies particularly to the
SEQ:Velocity:Along
SEQ:Have:Collected
EVI:Experiences:experiences a contraction in the direction of motion in consequence of
EVI:Reader:geometry for rigid bodies.[20] The reader will notice that the
EVI:Exactly:forms, in which the time co-ordinate plays exactly the same role as the
SEQ:Section:Show
REL:Clocks:Measuring
EVI:Attached:motion to the body attached to it. The tension of the rope is just
EVI:Must:Since equation (8_a_) must hold for points on the _x_-axis, we thus
EVI:Time:co-ordinate planes, and with regard to time by a time value _t_.
SEQ:Field:Immediate
SEQ:Another:Conclusion
SEQ:Possess:Certain
SEQ:Task:Testing
SEQ:Provide:Accordance
SEQ:Theorems:Better
EVI:Occult:awakened by thoughts of the occult. And yet there is no more
EVI:Propositions:which we may subject the body, the propositions of Euclidean geometry
EVI:Donate:donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.
CON:Indebted
SEQ:Classified:Catalogue
SEQ:Contrary:Arrived
SEQ:Distance:Between
SEQ:Right:When
EVI:Conservation:classical mechanics was able to establish successfully the conservation
EVI:Those:analogous to those holding in our three-dimensional measurements.
SEQ:Many:Times
EVI:Must:field must be satisfied for all gravitational fields obtainable in this
EVI:Position:between the position of the clock and the centre of the disc by φ,
SEQ:Considered:Reason
EVI:Comparison:during the eclipse and the comparison photographs amounted to a few
SEQ:Existence:Marked
SEQ:Relativity:Supported
CON:Electron
SEQ:Means:Determining
EVI:Bodies:between reference-bodies _K_ relative to which the recognised “laws of
EVI:More:played a different and more independent rôle, as compared with the
EVI:Observations:_K0_ throughout the whole year. However, the most careful observations
CON:Conservation
REL:Chest:Suspended
EVI:Reference:reference-bodies, in the sense of the method followed in the special
EVI:Swamp:outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.
SEQ:Experienced:Himself
EVI:Chest:the floor of the chest with an accelerated relative motion. The
SEQ:Body:Time
SEQ:Those:Fixed
SEQ:Showed:Different
SEQ:Atom:Situated
SEQ:Beings:Determine
REL:Rods:Experiments
SEQ:Possible:Quite
EVI:Three:three-dimensional spherical space is quite analogous to the
EVI:Relative:in which there is no gravitational field relative to the Galileian
EVI:Most:Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
EVI:Carriage:(_b_) The embankment is in motion relative to the carriage.
EVI:Energy:its inertial mass, and thus according to Section XV only its energy is
EVI:Through:passing through the surface _F_ of the sphere into its interior is
EVI:Transformation:transformation of co-ordinates.
REL:Work:Order
SEQ:Motion:Space
SEQ:Corresponding:Marble
SEQ:Finite:Finite
EVI:Last:transformation are valid. These last form the basis for the derivation
CON:Equation
EVI:About:This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
SEQ:Attracting:Material
EVI:Relativity:theory of relativity must yield important results on the laws of
SEQ:Part:Limiting
EVI:About:about the finite or infinite character of (three-dimensional) space,
EVI:Formal:discovery of Minkowski, which was of importance for the formal
REL:Treated:Detail
SEQ:Doubt:Validity
CON:Abstraction
EVI:Points:_A′_ and _B′_ the two points on the train whose distance apart is
EVI:Determined:of the co-ordinates are not actually determined by constructions with
EVI:Interpreted:acts outwards in a radial direction, and which would be interpreted as
EVI:Obtained:obtained here without any particular assumption, whereas Newton had to
SEQ:Mass:Average
EVI:Gives:which gives the “mollusc” a certain comprehensibility as compared with
EVI:Free:free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
SEQ:Energy:Subject
SEQ:Tangentially:Edge
CON:Constituting
EVI:Granted:state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
EVI:Also:particular point of the train. Also the definition of simultaneity can
EVI:Situated:The frequency of an atom situated on the surface of a heavenly body
CON:Damages
SEQ:Condition:Then
SEQ:Relativity:Simultaneity
EVI:Surface:these two numbers the co-ordinates of the surface of the table
EVI:Then:_W_, then this is given by the equation (A) or (B), according as the
EVI:Possible:from the inverse square law. In this way it is possible for the mean
EVI:Itself:to any physical theory, than that it should of itself point out the way
EVI:Values:inserting the values of these constants in (5), we obtain the first and
REL:Habit:Thought
EVI:Online:Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
SEQ:Realise:Straight
EVI:Capable:regarded essentially as magnitudes (results of measurements) capable of
EVI:Medium:medium) of the type of Newton’s law of gravitation.
EVI:Unit:unit of mass against the centrifugal force in order to transport it
EVI:Remain:remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
SEQ:Fundamental:Assumptions
EVI:Equations:equations must pass over into equations of the same form; for every
SEQ:Photographs:Expeditions
SEQ:These:Bodies
SEQ:Comparison:Discussion
SEQ:Greater:Distance
SEQ:Serves:Body
REL:Have:Deal
EVI:Known:This system of equations is known as the “Lorentz transformation.”[9]
EVI:Special:Since the introduction of the special principle of relativity has been
EVI:Uniformly:at a uniform rate. As long as it is moving uniformly, the occupant of
SEQ:Trademark:Contact
EVI:Suggestion:following suggestion with which to test simultaneity. By measuring
EVI:Appear:positions of the stars on the eclipse-photograph ought to appear
EVI:Possible:condition that, from amongst all possible Galileian co-ordinate
EVI:Motion:we should therefore expect that the direction of motion of the earth at
SEQ:Relative:Railway
EVI:Phenomena:etc., are equivalent for the description of natural phenomena
SEQ:Admit:Solution
EVI:Constancy:basis of the law of the constancy of the velocity of light. But
EVI:System:transition of one Gauss co-ordinate system into another.
EVI:Following:relativity” the following statement: All bodies of reference _K, K′_,
EVI:Include:Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
SEQ:Taking:Consideration
EVI:Gravitational:of the kind of gravitational field which may be present, we could
CON:Puts
SEQ:Universe:Infinite
EVI:Project:Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™
REL:Employed:Classical
SEQ:More:About
SEQ:Introduce:Space
CON:Word
EVI:Transformation:_K_. By means of the first equation of the Lorentz transformation the
EVI:Light:Since the same light-signal has to be transmitted relative to _K′_ with
EVI:Stated:This expression may also be stated in the following form:
EVI:Physical:least depend either on the material or on the physical state of the
SEQ:Jumps:Sure
SEQ:Whole:Only
SEQ:Have:Solicitation
SEQ:Expressed:Abstract
SEQ:Archive:Marxists
SEQ:Must:Intersect
EVI:Mass:is too small in comparison with the mass _m_, which was present before
EVI:Detail:to the best of my knowledge, was first discussed in detail by the
REL:Distribution:Project
CON:Exempt
EVI:Status:representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
EVI:Electrostatics:Maxwell in electrodynamics? Not in the least. Electrostatics is
SEQ:Relativity:Unsatisfactory
SEQ:Least:Fundamental
EVI:Refer:principle immaterial to what reference-body we refer the motion. As
SEQ:Later:Following
EVI:Guided:no longer achieved merely by a process of arrangement. Guided by
CON:Observers
EVI:Lines:point, they draw “straight lines” (arcs of circles as judged in three
SEQ:Correctness:Incorrectness
SEQ:Survive:Without
SEQ:Whose:Position
SEQ:Domains:Reference
SEQ:First:Approximation
EVI:Rigidly:relative to a system of co-ordinates rigidly attached to the ground
EVI:Distribution:reality the detailed distribution of matter is not uniform, the real
EVI:Retain:according to Section XXI the general theory of relativity cannot retain
EVI:Acquaintance:local variations of temperature, and with which we made acquaintance as
SEQ:Confirmation:Compliance
EVI:Justified:motion as our body of reference. We should then be justified (because
CON:Stipulation
EVI:Rope:motion to the body attached to it. The tension of the rope is just
EVI:Problem:handling the problem can be arrived at in the following way. We imagine
EVI:Kind:repulsions, unless there are forces of another kind operating between
SEQ:Motion:Returning
EVI:Gutenberg:at www.gutenberg.org. If you
EVI:Manner:following manner.
EVI:Does:does not hold, then the Galileian co-ordinate systems _K, K′, K″_,
SEQ:Gutenberg:License
SEQ:These:Three
EVI:Reference:reference-bodies (or their states of motion) are given priority over
SEQ:Speak:Being
EVI:Euclidean:Euclidean geometry hold for “distances;” the “distance” being
EVI:These:measuring-rod. All the free end-points of these lengths lie on a
EVI:Relatively:which the electrical masses are quite at rest relatively to each other,
SEQ:Following:Answer
EVI:Points:of the encounter of the hands of clocks with particular points on the
SEQ:Claim:Physical
REL:Stars:Taken
EVI:Manner:produced in an analogous manner terrestrially (_i.e._ by the same kind
EVI:Requires:The Lorentz transformation represented by (8) and (9) still requires to
EVI:Eddington:[22] First observed by Eddington and others in 1919. (Cf. Appendix
EVI:Means:means of purely theoretical operations (_i.e._ simply by calculation)
SEQ:Idea:Hence
SEQ:Equation:Thus
EVI:Cloud:observations of the cloud from different positions on the ground, and
SEQ:Motion:Given
SEQ:Field:Invalidates
EVI:Rods:measuring-rods and clocks, arranged rigidly with respect to one
SEQ:Transformation:Represented
EVI:Relativity:the theory of relativity, and the agreement is, indeed, very exact.
EVI:Solved:_continuum_. Thus it is that mathematicians long ago solved the formal
EVI:Motion:correct the observed motion of the planets for these two influences,
EVI:Substitute:relation between _x′_ and _t′_. In point of fact, if we substitute for
EVI:Regard:But how does the man in the chest regard the Process? The acceleration
CON:Dealing
SEQ:Small:Comparison
EVI:Theory:plays a fundamental role in this theory. In Part II we shall see in
CON:Dropped
SEQ:Assuming:Maxwell
EVI:Result:However, we obtain a new result of fundamental importance when we carry
EVI:Hypothesis:gravitational field _G_. Hereupon we introduce a hypothesis: that the
SEQ:Three:Points
CON:Hands
EVI:Collection:Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
EVI:Theory:logically rigid theory could be arrived at. This theory has been called
EVI:Parts:in its individual parts, but which nowhere departs appreciably from a
SEQ:What:Incomparably
SEQ:Works:Harmless
EVI:Transition:transition from one Galileian system to another, which is moving
EVI:Quite:_A priori_ it is quite clear that we must be able to learn something
EVI:Light:velocities that are small compared with the velocity of light; hence we
EVI:Light:velocity of light _in vacuo_.
EVI:Pulled:reference-body which is not being pulled with a rope.
EVI:Light:the defect attaching to classical mechanics which was brought to light
SEQ:Consideration:Expression
SEQ:Since:Only
EVI:Carriage:carriage, as hold with reference to the carriage when at rest or in
SEQ:Rigid:Body
EVI:Magnitudes:law for the space-time magnitudes of an event when changing over from
SEQ:Point:Particular
SEQ:Body:Emitting
SEQ:Line:Parabola
SEQ:Quite:Inadequate
CON:Allowed
EVI:Kind:gravitational field is of a kind that would not be possible on Newton’s
EVI:Development:existence, and in the theory of development which is based on the
EVI:Portrayed:which we portrayed in Section XXX.
EVI:Increased:showed a red shift which increased regularly with the distance of the
EVI:Mature:mature consideration the reader will doubtless admit that in reality
EVI:Also:by _x_1, _x_2, _x_3, _x_4, we also obtain the result that
SEQ:Invalid:Possibility
EVI:Index:http://www.marxists.org/reference/archive/einstein/index.htm
EVI:Laws:natural processes, the laws of which are already known when a
EVI:Section:II. Minkowski’s Four-Dimensional Space (“World”) (supplementary to section XVII)
SEQ:Laws:Electricity
SEQ:Surface:Distinguishable
CON:Punitive
EVI:Moves:Newton’s theory, a planet moves round the sun in an ellipse, which
EVI:Part:In the first part of this book we were able to make use of space-time
EVI:Four:three space co-ordinates. Formally, these four co-ordinates correspond
EVI:Term:theory of relativity, but only after a hypothetical term was added to
SEQ:Charge:Anything
CON:Protect
SEQ:Result:Fundamental
EVI:Relative:individual events relative to both reference-bodies, such that every
EVI:Gutenberg:Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
EVI:Terms:Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
SEQ:These:Important
EVI:Hubble:field equations of gravitation. Hubble’s discovery can, therefore, be
SEQ:Carriage:Hence
REL:Points:Inversely
CON:Settings
EVI:Part:process; for it slurs over the important part played by intuition and
EVI:Copyright:(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
EVI:Propagation:law of the propagation of light _in vacuo_ would then have to be
EVI:Temperature:detecting the effect of temperature than the geometrical behaviour of
EVI:Origin:other corner of a square with reference to this origin by means of two
EVI:Pure:Pure “space-distance” of two events with respect to _K_ results in
EVI:General:undergone by the fundamental idea of the general theory of relativity
EVI:Theory:From this we conclude that in the theory of relativity the velocity _c_
REL:Domain:Validity
SEQ:Prime:Factor
SEQ:Develop:Expression
EVI:Rods:measuring-rods. In doing so, it is his intention to arrive at exact
REL:Mollusc:Treated
EVI:Himself:observer will further convince himself _that the acceleration of the
EVI:Geometrical:matter. Thus we can draw conclusions about the geometrical structure of
EVI:Removed:thus: A body removed sufficiently far from other bodies continues in a
EVI:Negative:experiment gave a negative result—a fact very perplexing to physicists.
SEQ:Feeling:Unlike
SEQ:Relativity:Found
EVI:Energy:the alteration of the energy. It is owing to this circumstance that
EVI:Difficulty:was necessary to surmount a serious difficulty, and as this lies deep
EVI:Obtained:potential φ, hence the result we have obtained will hold quite
SEQ:Found:Leverrier
EVI:Motion:other reference-bodies (or their states of motion)? _What is the reason
SEQ:Small:Regions
SEQ:Nature:Aroused
SEQ:Understood:Here
REL:Hope:Success
SEQ:Points:Events
EVI:Useful:co-ordinates,” which is a useful idea for mathematical description, we
EVI:Detail:as set forth in detail in the first part of this book. For the
CON:Called
EVI:Accustomed:originally considered. That we have not been accustomed to regard the
EVI:Obtain:transformation, we obtain:
EVI:Obviously:(2). Obviously this will be the case when the relation
EVI:Other:methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
SEQ:Surface:Then
EVI:Long:this phenomenon was given by H. A. Lorentz long before the statement of
EVI:Alongside:whom we will imagine sitting alongside his clock at the centre of the
CON:Offer
SEQ:Transferred:Friend
EVI:Means:law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
EVI:Maxwell:fundamental equations of the electrodynamics of Maxwell: A body moving
SEQ:Material:Physical
SEQ:Regard:Chest
SEQ:Little:Means
EVI:Structure:XXXII. The Structure of Space According to the General Theory of Relativity
EVI:Returns:legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
EVI:Another:starting point diverge farther and farther from one another, but later
EVI:Mechanics:classical mechanics; the Lorentz transformation is the deciding factor
CON:Pair
EVI:Direction:experiences a contraction in the direction of motion in consequence of
SEQ:Magnitudes:Have
SEQ:Experience:Support
EVI:Relativity:III. The Experimental Confirmation of the General Theory of Relativity
EVI:Long:displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
EVI:Replaced:here replaced by the velocity of light relative to the embankment. _w_
SEQ:References:Project
CON:Societies
EVI:Since:aid, since the above construction can no longer be carried out. But
EVI:Experimental:of light (Doppler principle). The experimental arguments in favour of
EVI:Motion:prime factor involved in this contraction we find, not the motion in
EVI:Used:little rod, which has been used as a “distance” (line-interval). By
SEQ:Confirmed:Protected
EVI:Emitted:part. We should expect, for instance, that the note emitted by an
EVI:Inferences:A FEW INFERENCES FROM THE GENERAL PRINCIPLE OF RELATIVITY
EVI:Writing:neither takes up nor sends out energy. Writing the expression for the
SEQ:Relativity:Became
EVI:Point:(directed towards the negative _x_-axis) of a point of _K_ with respect
SEQ:Universe:Whole
EVI:Further:[7] We suppose further that, when three events _A, B_ and _C_ occur in
SEQ:Bodies:Continues
EVI:Bachem:and Bachem (Bonn), as a result of their own measurements and those of
EVI:Shows:shows that we are able to construct the Lorentz transformation in this
EVI:System:of the system.
EVI:Theory:general theory of relativity, it is perhaps advisable to make the facts
EVI:Must:_A priori_ it is quite clear that we must be able to learn something
SEQ:Inclusive:Reality
SEQ:Statement:Answer
SEQ:Place:According
EVI:Consideration:But we can carry out this consideration just as well on the basis of
SEQ:Relative:Orientation
EVI:Existence:it is difficult to form an opinion as to its existence. Whereas Grebe
EVI:Freundlich:which has been engaging our attention here, in a paper by E. Freundlich
EVI:Electrodynamics:latter been developed trom electrodynamics as an astoundingly simple
EVI:Outer:outer part do not.
SEQ:Square:Diagonals
SEQ:Every:Part
REL:Fulfilled:General
SEQ:Justified:Grounds
EVI:Velocity:_i.e._ with the velocity _c_. According to the equations of the Lorentz
EVI:Plays:plays the part of a limiting velocity, which can neither be reached nor
CON:Emphasised
SEQ:Energy:Increased
SEQ:Determining:Whether
EVI:Fact:In point of fact, astronomers have found that the theory of Newton does
EVI:Step:the empirical physical foundations of the theory in a “step-motherly”
EVI:State:co-ordinate systems, one (_K_) corresponding to a particular state of
EVI:Section:(SUPPLEMENTARY TO SECTION XI)
SEQ:Equations:Taking
EVI:Constants:inserting the values of these constants in (5), we obtain the first and
SEQ:Continuum:Owing
EVI:Production:production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
EVI:Supplies:solution of which the general theory of relativity supplies the key,
SEQ:Galileian:Does
EVI:Format:Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
EVI:Denote:the embankment). We denote this velocity by the symbol _W_, and we then
CON:Shortening
EVI:Experiment:its result. The experiment is concerned with the following question.
EVI:Only:that this fundamental law can only be valid for bodies of reference _K_
EVI:Emission:this bluish something will cause the emission of the steam, or at least
EVI:Surface:spherical surface. We can specially measure up the area (_F_) of this
EVI:Domains:_i.e._ domains in which gravitational fields are absent. If we now
REL:Measures:Make
EVI:Hypotheses:one direction in the form which also results from the hypotheses of
EVI:Difficulty:surmount this difficulty. We refer the four-dimensional space-time
EVI:Principle:PRINCIPLE OF RELATIVITY
SEQ:Believe:Ought
SEQ:Every:Fixed
EVI:Laws:upon as the laws of electricity. At the present time we know that
CON:Loses
SEQ:Breach:Warranty
EVI:Meet:would reach him simultaneously, _i.e._ they would meet just where he is
SEQ:Case:Previously
EVI:Velocity:not essential that the velocity of translation of _K′_ with respect to
SEQ:Object:Make
EVI:Accelerated:consider it with reference to the accelerated chest (reference-body
EVI:Remain:do not believe we ought to if we wish to remain consistent; we must
SEQ:Absolute:Angular
SEQ:Covers:Whole
EVI:Less:judged from the Galileian system, the length of this rod will be less
EVI:Therefore:necessary consequence. Prominent theoretical physicists were therefore
EVI:Reality:nevertheless, because in reality it assumes absolutely nothing about
SEQ:Clearness:Appeared
SEQ:More:Simply
SEQ:Direction:Interpreted
SEQ:Suppose:Further
SEQ:Respect:Does
SEQ:Arrive:Important
REL:Force:Attraction
EVI:Performed:rigid measuring-rods performed according to the rules and methods laid
SEQ:Iron:Through
SEQ:License:Available
SEQ:Step:Investigate
EVI:Must:We must experience many such surprises if the construction is to be
EVI:Direction:distant would be seen in the direction _D_1, as observed front the
EVI:Affects:part, however, this modification affects only the laws for rapid
SEQ:Held:Together
SEQ:Also:Move
EVI:Strives:strives to move towards the magnet. We shall not discuss here the
SEQ:Unit:Measuring
SEQ:Along:Length
CON:Ingenious
EVI:Matter:matter everywhere; it would present to us that unsatisfactory picture
EVI:Then:gravitational potential, then the study of this displacement will
SEQ:When:Changing
SEQ:Amount:Radius
SEQ:Galileian:Special
SEQ:Stellar:Universe
EVI:Return:perpetually passing out into infinite space, never to return, and
EVI:Energy:of energy should hold not only with reference to a co-ordinate system
EVI:Idea:fundamental idea of the general principle of relativity: “_All Gaussian
EVI:Reference:Thanks to: Einstein Reference Archive (marxists.org)
SEQ:Leads:Same
CON:Elect
REL:Alterations:Form
EVI:Milky:extra-galactic nebulae (“milky ways”), that the spectral lines emitted
SEQ:Time:Efforts
SEQ:Contrary:Results
EVI:Physical:_supposition nor a hypothesis_ about the physical nature of light, but
SEQ:Reference:Other
REL:Donors:Such
SEQ:Supply:Sufficiently
SEQ:Conversant:Mathematical
SEQ:Time:Refers
SEQ:Space:Means
SEQ:Fact:Very
EVI:Spherical:the solar system occupies only a negligibly small part of the spherical
SEQ:Propagated:Curvilinearly
EVI:Associated:is associated with every event which is essentially capable of
EVI:Bodies:reference-bodies (or their states of motion) are given priority over
SEQ:Bodies:Even
EVI:Velocity:As judged from _K_, the clock is moving with the velocity _v_; as
SEQ:Time:Rate
EVI:Each:each other, the negative electrical masses constituting the electron
SEQ:Always:Takes
SEQ:Original:Coordinate
EVI:When:same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
CON:Originally
CON:Companion
EVI:Gravitational:gravitational field exists for the man in the chest, despite the fact
SEQ:Calculated:Deviations
EVI:Consideration:possible answer seems to result from the following consideration: If
SEQ:Demand:Fundamentally
CON:Analogous
EVI:Know:instance, that we know the space-time “course” for any natural process
SEQ:Every:Reference
SEQ:Flashes:Lightning
EVI:Obtain:are small compared with the velocity of light, we then obtain as a
SEQ:Embankment:Through
SEQ:Universe:Destined
EVI:Whole:mirror to the other and back again, if the whole system be at rest with
EVI:Uniform:state of rest or of uniform motion in a straight line. This law not
SEQ:Plane:Point
CON:Constant
CON:Interfere
CON:Book
EVI:Motion:the brake, and that he recognises, in this the non-uniformity of motion
EVI:Part:plays a fundamental role in this theory. In Part II we shall see in
EVI:Eccentrically:sitting eccentrically on the disc _K′_ is sensible of a force which
SEQ:About:Years
CON:Characters
EVI:Chosen:_i.e._ a rigid body the state of motion of which is so chosen that the
EVI:Points:measuring-rod. All the free end-points of these lengths lie on a
EVI:Speaking:Hitherto I have purposely refrained from speaking about the physical
SEQ:Different:Hypothesis
CON:Appreciable
EVI:Established:[23] Established by Adams in 1924. (Cf. p. 132)
REL:Days:Receiving
SEQ:Result:Becomes
EVI:Four:which belongs to two adjacent points of the four-dimensional space-time
EVI:According:its inertial mass, and thus according to Section XV only its energy is
EVI:Means:[16] By means of the star photographs of two expeditions equipped by a
EVI:Observations:observations of double stars, the Dutch astronomer De Sitter was also
EVI:Common:rod in common with the first. We proceed in like manner with each of
SEQ:Operations:Simply
EVI:Constitute:the marble slab constitute a Euclidean continuum with respect to the
EVI:Theory:the _special theory of relativity_ to distinguish it from the extended
CON:Decide
SEQ:Prominent:Theoretical
SEQ:Disproved:Examine
EVI:Ordinate:impossible to construct a Cartesian co-ordinate system from equal rods,
EVI:Only:These inadequate remarks can give the reader only a vague notion of the
CON:Definitely
SEQ:Position:Instance
SEQ:Surfaces:Perpendicular
EVI:Represented:continuum which has to be represented.
EVI:Potential:gravitational potential, then the study of this displacement will
SEQ:Square:Then
EVI:Course:Of course this feature of the velocity _c_ as a limiting velocity also
SEQ:Appreciable:Masses
SEQ:Account:Nature
EVI:Those:gravitational fields, but only for those of quite special form. It is,
EVI:Project:(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
EVI:General:Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
EVI:Motion:constituting the electron remain unchanged during the motion of the
EVI:Reading:conditions we understand by the “time” of an event the reading
EVI:Momentary:momentary existence without duration, then it would to described in
SEQ:Gravitation:Cause
SEQ:Universe:Then
SEQ:Connection:Obtain
SEQ:Because:Every
SEQ:Apparently:Quite
EVI:Properties:relativity puts us in a position to derive properties of the
EVI:Means:exists with reference to it. This is by no means true for all
CON:Physical
EVI:Account:_t_ from the equations (5), taking into account the expression (6), we
SEQ:Reference:Ordinate
CON:Using
SEQ:Last:Measurement
EVI:Relativity:development of the theory of relativity, does not lie here. It is to be
EVI:Agreement:agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
SEQ:Below:Things
EVI:Part:(“world”), even when only a relatively small part of their worldsphere
CON:Taken
CON:Side
SEQ:Experiment:Unsuccessful
SEQ:Stars:Compared
EVI:Greater:and for still greater velocities the square-root becomes imaginary.
EVI:Reference:(_a_) the embankment as reference-body,
EVI:Effects:transmission of electromagnetic waves. The effects of gravitation also
EVI:Uniformly:uniformly. We call its motion a uniform translation (“uniform” because
EVI:Physical:have never revealed such anisotropic properties in terrestrial physical
EVI:Succeeded:diminish, until finally, at great distances, it is succeeded by an
EVI:Them:measuring-rods, are free to move in a _plane_. For them nothing exists
REL:Time:Absolute
SEQ:Possible:Make
EVI:Sufficient:the spherical universe. Our experience is far from being sufficient to
EVI:Case:mechanical behaviour is different from that of the case previously
SEQ:Amount:Given
EVI:Invalidity:limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
EVI:Works:electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.
SEQ:Stand:Window
EVI:Then:clock is at rest, then the “rate” of the clock (_v_) when it is moving
EVI:Following:body of reference. The following statement corresponds to the
EVI:Literary:generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
EVI:Previously:room of a home on our earth. If he releases a body which he previously
CON:Habit
EVI:Deals:This primitive method of place specification deals only with places on
SEQ:Built:Logically
EVI:Ordinate:(co-ordinate system); they regard all events in reference to the train.
SEQ:States:United
SEQ:Found:Theory
EVI:Part:take part in the accelerated motion of the chest, and it transmits this
EVI:Thus:point. Thus for a co-ordinate system moving with the earth the mirror
SEQ:Force:Enters
EVI:Search:valuable heuristic aid in the search for general laws of nature. If a
EVI:Anyone:standing in the chest in exactly the same way as anyone stands in a
SEQ:Nature:Success
CON:Ensured
EVI:Seen:have σ = 1. It is easily seen that the Lorentz transformation really
EVI:Have:systems, we should have chosen _one_ (_K0_) of a particular state of
SEQ:Freely:Space
EVI:Relation:system _K′_ is a Galileian one, when, in relation to _K_, it is in a
SEQ:Sufficient:Accuracy
EVI:Draw:strike you as being very singular, and for that reason I shall now draw
EVI:Idea:ON THE IDEA OF TIME IN PHYSICS
EVI:Evident:one, for reasons which will become evident at a later stage.
SEQ:Have:Frequently
EVI:Himself:naturally does not exist for this observer. He must fasten himself with
EVI:Chest:come to the conclusion that he and the chest are in a gravitational
EVI:Mean:statement, because they mean that they can perform the constructions of
SEQ:Finite:Manner
SEQ:Incomplete:Inaccurate
SEQ:Universe:Because
SEQ:Limited:Shall
EVI:Published:First Published: December, 1916
SEQ:Objection:Your
SEQ:About:Donations
EVI:Space:with respect to the “Galileian space” first considered, we can
EVI:Restricted:V. The Principle of Relativity (in the Restricted Sense)
SEQ:Observer:Performs
SEQ:Know:Previous
EVI:Fact:the fact that the theory of relativity enables us to predict the
EVI:Highest:distance without our proceeding being in the highest measure grossly
SEQ:Just:Well
EVI:Lengths:measurement or the comparison of lengths.
EVI:Next:The next step is to investigate the space-time behaviour of the
EVI:Distribution:by the distribution of matter. This in itself is sufficient to exclude
SEQ:Times:Clear
EVI:Centre:[18] The field disappears at the centre of the disc and increases
EVI:Section:We were led to that conflict by the considerations of Section VI, which
SEQ:Permission:Work
EVI:Definite:definite ideas, and from certain simple propositions (axioms) which, in
SEQ:Special:Sense
SEQ:Condition:Uniform
EVI:Untenable:relativity will be untenable. On the other hand, if the cause of the
EVI:Curvilinear:Galilei) is executing an accelerated and in general curvilinear motion
SEQ:Dimensional:Points
EVI:Choose:for instance, impossible to choose a body of reference such that, as
SEQ:Tied:Down
SEQ:Point:Neighbouring
EVI:Appendix:Note: The fifth Appendix was added by Einstein at the time of the
SEQ:Different:Velocity
SEQ:Obvious:Same
SEQ:Shall:Also
EVI:Section:In Section XXIII it has been shown that in a system _K′_ which is in
EVI:Without:point to point without executing “jumps.” I am sure the reader will
EVI:Time:the space-time coincidence of two events _A_ and _B_. In terms of
CON:Does
EVI:Inertia:fixed stars are bodies for which the law of inertia certainly holds to
SEQ:Same:Purpose
EVI:Force:unit of mass against the centrifugal force in order to transport it
EVI:Keep:considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
EVI:Stars:calculation is not possible in the case of the stars, because in
SEQ:Similar:Difficulty
SEQ:Point:Distance
EVI:Representations:representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
SEQ:Part:Book
EVI:Forth:favour of the theory of relativity, are too numerous to be set forth
CON:Numerically
EVI:Place:The extension of this result, to include events which take place
EVI:Source:the same spectral lines when they are produced by a terrestrial source
EVI:Still:We can state this general principle of relativity in still another
SEQ:Properties:Terrestrial
SEQ:Longer:Able
EVI:Work:distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
EVI:Different:the motion of the raven would be one of different velocity and
SEQ:Also:Have
EVI:Constructed:square constructed with rods. The great charm resulting from this
SEQ:Manner:Motion
SEQ:Interval:Distance
SEQ:Index:Refraction
EVI:Principles:Gauss indicated the principles according to which we can treat the
EVI:Does:gravitational potential does not exist, then the general theory of
EVI:Surface:spherical surface differs only slightly from a piece of a plane of the
SEQ:Make:Donations
EVI:Understanding:have no further difficulty in understanding the methods leading to the
EVI:Different:observations of the cloud from different positions on the ground, and
EVI:Greatest:getting into the greatest difficulties. We only need to think of the
CON:Such
EVI:Nature:nature” can be said to hold, and reference-bodies _K_ relative to which
SEQ:Perhaps:Have
SEQ:Last:Equation
EVI:License:License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
EVI:Electromagnetic:electromagnetic phenomena, we have come to regard action at a distance
SEQ:Forward:Against
SEQ:These:Relations
EVI:Distributing:Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
SEQ:Before:Theory
EVI:Field:gravitational field exists for the man in the chest, despite the fact
SEQ:Remove:Full
EVI:Motion:meant here by motion “in space”? From the considerations of the
EVI:Xxxi:XXXI. The Possibility of a “Finite” and yet “Unbounded” Universe
CON:Disregarding
EVI:Introduction:the use of divided measuring-rods, the introduction of which does not
EVI:Difficulties:Undaunted by the [first world] war and by difficulties of both a
REL:Behaviour:Different
EVI:Positions:situated on a straight line, if their apparent positions can be made to
SEQ:Understand:Fundamental
EVI:License:www.gutenberg.org/license.
SEQ:Choose:Another
SEQ:Unimportant:Pardonable
EVI:Other:1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
EVI:Reached:plays the part of a limiting velocity, which can neither be reached nor
SEQ:Influence:Field
EVI:Clocks:about the physical behaviour of measuring-rods and clocks from the
EVI:Value:likewise be of arbitrary shape. It follows that a value of _u_ and a
EVI:Project:on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
SEQ:Cannot:Regarded
EVI:Rods:measuring-rods, clocks and material points under the influence of the
SEQ:Feeling:Proud
EVI:Result:theoretical result is in accordance with the reality. We encounter the
CON:Seized
SEQ:Therefore:Position
EVI:Phenomena:phenomena connected with moving bodies show that experience in this
EVI:Incompatability:VII. The Apparent Incompatability of the Law of Propagation of Light with the Principle of Relativity
EVI:Leads:The theory of relativity leads to the same law of motion, without
CON:Calculated
SEQ:Towards:Floor
SEQ:Lines:Each
EVI:Reference:gravitational field exists relative to a reference-body _K_ whose state
EVI:Ordinate:If _K_ is a Galileian co-ordinate system. then every other co-ordinate
SEQ:Without:Limits
SEQ:State:Rest
EVI:Importance:result is of great importance.
EVI:World:up to a maximum value which is determined by the “world-radius,” but
EVI:Relativity:According also to the general theory of relativity, which differs of
SEQ:Domain:Random
SEQ:Different:Laws
SEQ:Calculation:Indicate
SEQ:Care:Choose
EVI:Observation:of observation owing to their smallness.
SEQ:Considerations:Universe
CON:Land
SEQ:Only:Energy
EVI:General:Source: Relativity: The Special and General Theory (1920)
SEQ:These:Galileian
REL:Such:Sent
EVI:Take:processes which take place according to known laws when a gravitational
CON:Wish
EVI:Resulting:the fixed stars resulting from the motion of the earth round the sun
SEQ:Intensity:Action
SEQ:Distributed:Project
REL:Consequence:What
EVI:Relativity:relativity must therefore apply with great accuracy in the domain of
EVI:Ordinates:Cartesian system of co-ordinates.
EVI:Known:It is known that cathode rays and the so-called β-rays emitted by
EVI:Above:the above definition), then the criterion for the simultaneity of the
EVI:Regard:instead of the real quantity _t_, we can regard the space-time
EVI:Thinkable:with respect to the railway embankment? Is there a thinkable answer to
EVI:Theory:as follows: The special theory of relativity has reference to Galileian
EVI:Clearly:themselves clearly until this construction is extended over a
EVI:Relativity:general theory of relativity, this does not disturb him; he is quite in
SEQ:Systems:These
EVI:Planet:revolution of the planet. Our result may also be stated as follows:
EVI:Spherical:analogy, namely, the three-dimensional spherical space which was
SEQ:Such:Framework
SEQ:Vain:Real
EVI:Measuring:their measuring-rods and other objects fit exactly on this surface and
EVI:Each:point, and mark off from each of these the distance _r_ with a
SEQ:Line:Obtain
SEQ:Acceptance:Justified
EVI:Acceleration:accelerated body. If now gravitation is the cause of the acceleration,
SEQ:Plays:Fundamental
SEQ:Xiii:Theorem
SEQ:Most:Project
EVI:Galileian:IV. The Galileian System of Co-ordinates
SEQ:Thus:Rope
EVI:Gutenberg:all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
SEQ:Judged:Body
EVI:Regard:nevertheless regard the chest as being at rest. We have thus good
SEQ:Consequence:Energy
SEQ:Foundation:Business
SEQ:Carriage:Reference
SEQ:Matter:Fact
SEQ:Other:Work
SEQ:Ratio:Value
EVI:Natural:As long as one was convinced that all natural phenomena were capable of
REL:Able:Attach
SEQ:Field:Space
EVI:Continuum:relative position of which in the four-dimensional continuum is given
SEQ:Seen:Assumption
EVI:Should:the flying raven from the moving railway carriage. we should find that
EVI:Arcs:point, they draw “straight lines” (arcs of circles as judged in three
EVI:Encounter:of the encounter of the hands of clocks with particular points on the
EVI:Laws:outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.
EVI:Form:freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
EVI:Produced:freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
EVI:Spite:more inclined to reject the principle of relativity, in spite of the
EVI:Cause:in any other direction whatsoever. Of cause this is not surprising,
SEQ:Those:Event
EVI:Relatively:for a co-ordinate system which is at rest relatively to the sun.
SEQ:Stars:Themselves
REL:Place:Instantaneous
EVI:Point:experience. On this point we are enlightened by a most important
SEQ:Difficulty:Electrodynamic
SEQ:Also:Think
SEQ:Copyright:Holder
SEQ:Thus:Proportional
SEQ:Clear:Itself
EVI:Apply:detour in order to be able to apply the postulate of general relativity
CON:Sitter
SEQ:Unless:Comply
EVI:Space:with which the event coincides in space.[4]
SEQ:World:Cost
SEQ:Nothing:Left
EVI:According:according to classical mechanics, time is absolute, _i.e._ it is
SEQ:Testing:Square
SEQ:Between:Perihelion
EVI:Bodies:domains to _non-Galileian_ reference-bodies also. A gravitational field
SEQ:Developed:Trom
EVI:Posted:posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
EVI:Furthermore:generally for gravitational fields. Furthermore, we can regard an atom
EVI:Gravitational:gravitational field _G_. Hereupon we introduce a hypothesis: that the
EVI:Given:same for a given gravitational field, then the ratio of the
EVI:Furthermore:Furthermore, the principle of relativity teaches us that, as judged
EVI:Bodies:relativity” the following statement: All bodies of reference _K, K′_,
SEQ:Motion:Value
EVI:Replacement:1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
EVI:Called:appear to be called in question. In reality we must make a subtle
EVI:Distribute:1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
CON:Expenses
SEQ:Light:Assumption
SEQ:Editions:Protected
SEQ:Difficult:Access
SEQ:Satisfactory:Because
EVI:Becomes:what way this result becomes modified in the general theory of
EVI:Since:half a century ago, and which has been repeated since then by some of
EVI:Sense:V. The Principle of Relativity (in the Restricted Sense)
EVI:According:sense one can say, according to Friedman, that the theory demands an
EVI:Then:left-hand side, then the left-hand side of (11_a_) agrees with the
EVI:Rise:will cause him to rise slowly towards the ceiling of the room.
EVI:Difficulties:XXX. Cosmological Difficulties of Newton’s Theory
EVI:Should:Newton-Kepler motion of a planet in its orbit should take place, and in
SEQ:Events:Also
CON:Mathematically
EVI:Work:PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK
CON:Hypertext
EVI:Lengths:specification of the lengths of the three perpendiculars or
SEQ:Bodies:Used
SEQ:Equations:Term
CON:Subsequent
REL:Require:Obtain
SEQ:Must:Then
EVI:Gutenberg:of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online
EVI:Covers:covers the distance _w_ in a unit of time—_measured from the
EVI:Displacement:years. If the displacement of spectral lines towards the red by the
EVI:Have:are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws
SEQ:Then:Cartesian
EVI:Electromagnetic:transmission of electromagnetic waves. The effects of gravitation also
CON:Without
EVI:Continuum:XXVII. The Space-Time Continuum of the General Theory of Relativity is Not a Euclidean Continuum
SEQ:Whole:Number
EVI:Angle:angle of deflection (α) should amount to
EVI:Thus:agreement of their four co-ordinates _x_1, _x_2, _x_3, _x_4. Thus in
CON:Distribute
SEQ:Functions:Identically
CON:Unanswerable
EVI:Gutenberg:including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
SEQ:Only:Reference
EVI:Follows:The validity of the Lorentz transformation follows from this condition.
EVI:Nebulae:extra-galactic nebulae (“milky ways”), that the spectral lines emitted
EVI:Event:the scene of any event will be determined (for the main part) by the
SEQ:Well:Basis
SEQ:Clocks:Also
EVI:Choose:these became meaningless if we choose values of _v_ greater than _c_.
EVI:Dimensions:So far, these considerations hold for a continuum of two dimensions.
EVI:These:consider these important deductions, and we shall also discuss the
EVI:Lake:plane: something like the rippled surface of a lake. Such a universe
EVI:Maxwell:electrodynamics of Maxwell-Lorentz, on which the original theory was
SEQ:Still:More
EVI:Classical:classical mechanics; these are as follows:
EVI:Come:this condition of things. He asks: “How does it come that certain
SEQ:Distance:Planet
EVI:Points:directly; the intensity and direction of the field at points farther
SEQ:Years:Later
SEQ:Reference:Here
EVI:Discussion:time mentioned above. Comparison with the discussion in Section XII
EVI:Gravitation:gravitation will be derivable from such gravitational fields of a
SEQ:Strict:Consideration
EVI:Results:how these magnitudes are to be regarded as results of physical
CON:Colour
EVI:Ideas:of relativity, of which the fundamental ideas are developed in the
EVI:Works:of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
SEQ:Comprehensive:Limitation
SEQ:Original:Field
EVI:Fixed:would permanently maintain its position with respect to the fixed
EVI:Simply:case simply by transformation of the coordinates. This behaviour is
SEQ:Rather:Than
EVI:Gone:If everything has really gone smoothly, then I say that the points of
EVI:Case:neither case, and if I observe that the one continuously emits steam
EVI:Matters:brilliant theoretical physicist L. Boltzmann, according to whom matters
CON:Transmission
EVI:Imaginary:introduce the imaginary
EVI:Carry:public support and donations to carry out its mission of
EVI:Corresponding:co-ordinate systems, one (_K_) corresponding to a particular state of
EVI:View:view, then the following formula holds:
EVI:Opposes:based, in no way opposes the theory of relativity. Rather has the
EVI:Position:position has been developed.
EVI:Mass:enclose the average mass ρ0_V_. Thus the number of lines of force
EVI:Motion:itself, to which we cannot attach any meaning, but the motion with
EVI:Based:means of measuring-rods and clocks. If we had based our considerations
SEQ:Formulate:More
SEQ:Special:General
CON:Indicates
EVI:Euclidean:which we may subject the body, the propositions of Euclidean geometry
EVI:Ought:red ought to take place for spectral lines produced at the surface of
EVI:Form:in the same form as the space co ordinates _x_1, _x_2, _x_3.
EVI:Problem:XXIX. The Solution of the Problem of Gravitation on the Basis of the General Principle of Relativity
EVI:Embankment:the embankment). We denote this velocity by the symbol _W_, and we then
EVI:These:extends exclusively over the surface of the sphere. Are these beings
EVI:General:gravitation. In point of fact, the systematic pursuit of the general
REL:Introduction:Particular
EVI:Warranties:LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.
EVI:Energies:than _c_, however great may be the energies used to produce the
SEQ:Fall:Know
EVI:Some:bring some one a few happy hours of suggestive thought!
EVI:Such:for instance, impossible to choose a body of reference such that, as
EVI:Work:electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
CON:About
SEQ:Precision:Recent
SEQ:Meaning:Attached
EVI:Einstein:A. EINSTEIN
CON:Conformable
EVI:Energy:bodies can even be regarded as a measure of its energy. The law of the
EVI:Bodies:The purpose of mechanics is to describe how bodies change their
EVI:Rigid:points on a practically rigid body always correspond to the same
SEQ:Equally:Justifiable
EVI:Branch:supplemented in this way is then to be treated as a branch of physics.
EVI:Coordinates:a gravitational field invalidates the definition of the coordinates and
EVI:Demands:line with the demands of the special theory of relativity. For the main
EVI:Those:last are undoubtedly the exclusive cause of the genesis of those ideas.
EVI:Empirical:has neither empirical nor theoretical foundation. We can imagine
CON:States
SEQ:Cease:Using
SEQ:Case:Question
EVI:Ebooks:subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
EVI:Than:Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
CON:Attracted
EVI:Mirror:point. Thus for a co-ordinate system moving with the earth the mirror
CON:Corrected
EVI:Molluscs:requires that all these molluscs can be used as reference-bodies with
SEQ:Rest:Reference
CON:Notice
EVI:Described:our rods in experiments analogous to the one described above, then our
EVI:Owing:solution. Owing to the smallness of the effect in the case of the sun,
REL:Work:Discovered
SEQ:Clocks:Measuring
EVI:Disc:centre of the disc, has a velocity relative to _K_ which is given by
CON:Transformations
EVI:Though:disposal the means of measuring time. It would thus appear as though we
SEQ:Free:Rope
SEQ:Discuss:Here
EVI:Theory:basis of theory. The special theory of relativity has rendered the
EVI:Somewhat:After further consideration you cast a somewhat disdainful glance at
EVI:When:law for the space-time magnitudes of an event when changing over from
EVI:Following:In practice, the question is tested in the following way. The stars in
EVI:Assumption:by means of classical mechanics only on the assumption of hypotheses
EVI:General:Title: Relativity: The Special and General Theory
EVI:Simply:each other. Here the Gaussian coordinates are simply Cartesian ones. It
CON:Exactly
SEQ:Difficulty:Discussed
EVI:Body:[12] As judged from a co-ordinate system moving with the body.
EVI:Carriage:the carriage is not sensible of its motion, and it is for this reason
EVI:About:nevertheless, because in reality it assumes absolutely nothing about
SEQ:Business:Without
SEQ:Necessarily:Play
EVI:Time:“world” by Minkowski is naturally four dimensional in the space-time
SEQ:View:Realized
EVI:Have:[20] Mathematicians have been confronted with our problem in the
REL:Works:Formats
SEQ:Originated:Interest
EVI:Must:must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
EVI:Theory:theory of relativity must yield important results on the laws of
EVI:Events:co-ordinates and times of events have not been defined, we cannot
SEQ:Ceiling:Room
EVI:Table:from any one point on this table to any other point by passing
EVI:Must:the chest. He must therefore take up this pressure by means of his legs
EVI:Able:are able to see the manner in which a refinement of the conception of
REL:Number:Public
CON:Pronounced
CON:Paragraphs
SEQ:Terrestrial:Physical
SEQ:Chest:Always
SEQ:Electrodynamics:Maxwell
CON:Outwards
SEQ:Number:Little
SEQ:Difficulty:Refer
CON:Four
EVI:Mechanics:fundamental difficulty attending classical celestial mechanics, which,
REL:Concept:Trademark
SEQ:Inverse:Square
REL:Cause:Occur
EVI:Rest:possible to describe the position of a point (at rest) by means of
EVI:Frequently:motion. Returning to the illustration we have frequently used of the
EVI:Reluctance:that he can without reluctance interpret the facts of the case as
EVI:Printing:fifteenth re-printing of this book; and as a result is still under
EVI:Involved:a question of detecting or of describing the motion involved, it is in
SEQ:Card:Donations
EVI:Tension:motion to the body attached to it. The tension of the rope is just
SEQ:Phenomena:Course
EVI:Orbit:[26] Especially since the next planet Venus has an orbit that is
EVI:Embankment:embankment and the railway carriage, we can express the fact of the
EVI:Points:coincide with these two points; for how else should we define the
SEQ:Work:Long
SEQ:Basis:Theoretical
EVI:State:in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
SEQ:Valid:Bodies
EVI:Consider:used before. Let us consider a space time domain in which no
EVI:General:THE SPACE-TIME CONTINUUM OF THE GENERAL THEORY OF RELATIVITY IS NOT A
SEQ:Since:According
CON:Everyone
REL:Number:Times
EVI:Satisfy:satisfy the equation
SEQ:Sitter:Also
SEQ:General:Character
EVI:These:these bodies of reference are to be regarded as Galileian
EVI:Sufficiently:always possible. It is only possible when sufficiently small regions of
EVI:Carriage:our example of the railway carriage supposed to be travelling
EVI:Effect:on the dense companion of Sirius, for which the effect is about thirty
EVI:Railway:railway line. Here the following method suggests itself. If we call
EVI:Access:which they have access is in both cases practically plane, or
EVI:Fizeau:THEOREM OF THE ADDITION OF VELOCITIES. THE EXPERIMENT OF FIZEAU
REL:Modified:Printed
EVI:Internal:state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
SEQ:Such:Broad
SEQ:Science:Bears
SEQ:Over:Equations
EVI:Theory:favour of the theory of relativity, are too numerous to be set forth
EVI:Body:body is equal to its _inertial_ mass.
EVI:Valid:valid from the standpoint of an observer who is rotating with the disc.
CON:Provided
CON:Foretold
CON:Original
EVI:Follows:assumptions of the two theories. In what follows, we shall again
EVI:Nature:drawing on hypotheses as to the physical nature of the liquid.
EVI:Rate:both clocks go at the same rate from the standpoint of the non-rotating
SEQ:Rods:Lattice
EVI:Authorised:Translated: Robert W. Lawson (Authorised translation)
CON:Disdain
EVI:Conformably:conformably to this point of view.
EVI:Experience:experience? This question is not easily answered for the reason already
EVI:Direction:vertical direction by means of a framework of rods, so that an event
SEQ:Three:Dimensional
CON:Fill
EVI:Spherical:But the spherical-surface beings do not need to go on a world-tour in
CON:Defect
SEQ:Body:Thence
CON:Real
EVI:Travelling:and in the direction indicated in Fig 1. People travelling in this
EVI:Process:no longer achieved merely by a process of arrangement. Guided by
CON:Mirror
EVI:Principle:incompatibility of the law of propagation of light with the principle
EVI:Equal:the embankment through a distance _v_ equal numerically to the velocity
EVI:Certainly:of Section XVIII. It is certainly true that the observer in the railway
REL:Result:Still
EVI:Longer:aid, since the above construction can no longer be carried out. But
SEQ:Only:Logical
SEQ:Iron:Latter
CON:Catalogue
SEQ:Appearance:Practically
EVI:Facts:But there are two classes of experimental facts hitherto obtained which
REL:Propositions:Thus
SEQ:Matter:Over
EVI:Relative:section. If we denote the velocity of the light relative to the tube by
EVI:Suffice:not suffice to calculate the observed motion of Mercury with an
EVI:Disc:circular disc. Thus on our circular disc, or, to make the case more
EVI:Most:In your schooldays most of you who read this book made acquaintance
REL:According:Classical
EVI:Rectilinear:rectilinear motion with respect to _K_ (in accordance with the law of
EVI:Donations:Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
EVI:Exclusive:last are undoubtedly the exclusive cause of the genesis of those ideas.
EVI:Following:we can satisfy this requirement for our illustration in the following
EVI:Hubble:the galactic line-shift discovered by Hubble as an expansion (which can
CON:Rotation
EVI:Velocities:THE THEOREM OF THE ADDITION OF VELOCITIES EMPLOYED IN CLASSICAL
SEQ:Hypothesis:Whatsoever
EVI:Here:We must draw attention here to one of these deviations. According to
CON:Wherever
CON:Tenet
EVI:Curve:[6] That is, a curve along which the body moves.
SEQ:Reader:Proceed
EVI:Volume:squares made up of rods, _i.e._ its volume (surface) is infinite. If
EVI:Read:cannot be read by your equipment.
EVI:Point:relation between _x′_ and _t′_. In point of fact, if we substitute for
REL:Rest:Different
EVI:Same:they start off from rest or with the same initial velocity. This law,
SEQ:Choose:Body
EVI:Hitherto:Hitherto I have purposely refrained from speaking about the physical
SEQ:Have:Made
SEQ:When:Measured
EVI:Condition:this condition of things. He asks: “How does it come that certain
EVI:Neighbourhood:to be in the neighbourhood of the sun, and are thus capable of
EVI:Previous:of the construction of squares in the previous section do not show
SEQ:Introducing:Less
EVI:Event:point-event a “world-point.” From a “happening” in three-dimensional
EVI:Sufficient:by the distribution of matter. This in itself is sufficient to exclude
EVI:Perfectly:A ray of light requires a perfectly definite time _T_ to pass from one
EVI:Free:agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
EVI:Providing:providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
EVI:Pass:numbers. I only need state how many rods I must pass over when,
SEQ:Event:Takes
EVI:Galactic:extra-galactic nebulae (“milky ways”), that the spectral lines emitted
SEQ:Idea:Time
SEQ:According:Friedman
SEQ:Hold:Then
EVI:Amount:of the planet. Theory requires that this rotation should amount to 43
EVI:Assign:assign an exact meaning to the natural laws in which these occur.
SEQ:Revolving:Round
EVI:Great:fixed stars. This deduction, which can be tested with great accuracy,
SEQ:Suggested:Modification
EVI:Position:description of position, it should be possible by means of numerical
EVI:Views:[5] A refinement and modification of these views does not become
SEQ:Jumps:Pedantic
EVI:Perihelion:(from perihelion—closest proximity to the sun—to perihelion) would
SEQ:Fulfilled:General
EVI:Mentioned:That is, by the afore-mentioned choice of “coordinates,” (11_a_) [see
SEQ:Light:Coming
REL:Even:Infinity
EVI:Inhabited:necessarily be _nil_. Thus such a universe could not be inhabited by
EVI:Relativity:direction according to the theory of relativity. The question now
EVI:Reaching:effects produced on the light reaching us from the fixed stars. These
EVI:Density:in which the density of the stars is a maximum, and that as we proceed
SEQ:Volunteers:Donations
EVI:Experience:his observations. What will be his experience in this enterprise?
EVI:Components:(aberration), and to the influence of the radial components of the
EVI:Direction:original velocity in the backwards direction is continuously reduced.”
EVI:Since:elliptical) excels in its simplicity, since all points on it are
EVI:Sense:THE PRINCIPLE OF RELATIVITY (IN THE RESTRICTED SENSE)
EVI:Literary:from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
EVI:Axioms:definite ideas, and from certain simple propositions (axioms) which, in
EVI:Move:strives to move towards the magnet. We shall not discuss here the
EVI:Action:electromagnetic phenomena, we have come to regard action at a distance
EVI:Have:In order to have a _complete_ description of the motion, we must
EVI:Quickly:_w_. How quickly or, in other words, with what velocity _W_ does the
SEQ:Nature:Liquid
EVI:Event:every point of the continuum (event) four numbers, _x_1, _x_2, _x_3,
EVI:Characteristic:where the “gravitational mass” is likewise a characteristic constant
EVI:Points:points on a practically rigid body always correspond to the same
EVI:Rules:rigid measuring-rods performed according to the rules and methods laid
EVI:Extend:require to extend our ideas of the space-time continuum still farther.
SEQ:Whether:Living
EVI:Coordinate:an imaginary time coordinate); the Lorentz transformation corresponds
EVI:Science:most out-of-the-way proposition of this science to be untrue. But
REL:Able:Make
EVI:Direction:from _K_, if it is applied to the disc in the direction of the radius.
SEQ:Moreover:Considerations
EVI:Distributed:copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
EVI:Incomplete:this sense is founded exclusively on rather incomplete experience. For
EVI:Special:the _special_ principle of relativity, or special theory of relativity.
EVI:Place:In the first place, it can be compared with the reality. Although a
SEQ:States:Without
EVI:Then:at the same time, then they are simultaneous.
EVI:Exactly:be given relative to the train in exactly the same way as with respect
EVI:Proven:follow from those axioms, _i.e._ they are proven. A proposition is then
CON:Calculate
EVI:Limit:here. In reality they limit the theoretical possibilities to such an
EVI:System:so here it is impossible to build up a system (reference-body) from
SEQ:Squares:Until
EVI:Choose:choose, the co-ordinates _x1, y1, z1, t1_ of which differ by an
EVI:System:simultaneity). Every reference-body (co-ordinate system) has its own
EVI:Fundamental:in vacuo, which constitutes one of the two fundamental assumptions in
EVI:Whom:or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.
EVI:Detecting:detecting the effect of temperature than the geometrical behaviour of
EVI:Event:time of an event.
CON:Constitutes
SEQ:Xviii:Exact
SEQ:Find:Experience
EVI:Radius:radius _r_ depends on _r_, but for a given value of _r_ it is the same
SEQ:Respect:Fixed
SEQ:Physical:Interpretation
EVI:Connection:equivalence of _all_ bodies of reference _K_ in connection with the
EVI:Distance:proportionally to the distance from the centre as we proceed outwards.
EVI:Motion:not suffice to calculate the observed motion of Mercury with an
SEQ:Detail:Little
EVI:Advances:_x_-axis, and this light-stimulus advances in accordance with the
EVI:Lorentz:_i.e._ with the velocity _c_. According to the equations of the Lorentz
EVI:Velocity:this latter theory the velocity of light must always depend on the
EVI:Universe:universe, they have no means of determining whether they are living in
SEQ:Velocity:Easily
SEQ:Despite:These
CON:Hundredths
SEQ:Processing:Hypertext
SEQ:Celestial:Mechanics
EVI:Types:warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
SEQ:Fact:Velocity
EVI:Hold:hold for these from those resulting on the basis of Euclidean plane
SEQ:Regard:Matter
EVI:Registered:1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
SEQ:Body:Same
SEQ:Known:Stated
SEQ:Same:Distance
SEQ:Fees:Meet
SEQ:Requires:Universe
EVI:Both:of light _in vacuo_ is satisfied both for the reference-body _K_ and
SEQ:Systems:Values
EVI:Lines:believes he knows, that this propagation takes place in straight lines
EVI:Requires:velocity, and requires no consideration if we are only dealing with the
SEQ:Consider:Second
CON:Downward
SEQ:Ought:Possess
EVI:Else:is nothing else than the energy possessed by the body[12] before it
SEQ:Cannot:Form
SEQ:Moving:Shorter
REL:Delicacy:Detail
EVI:Number:(_b_) In locating the position of the object, we make use of a number
EVI:Theory:The theory of relativity leads to the same law of motion, without
EVI:Suppose:embankment. Now let us suppose that our railway carriage is again
EVI:Marble:of the marble slab. When I say they are of equal length, I mean that
EVI:Several:Principe (West Africa)—and sent several of Britain’s most celebrated
SEQ:Unchanged:During
CON:Realised
EVI:Angle:given the amount by which the radius sun-planet exceeds this angle
EVI:Nature:Every general law of nature must be so constituted that it is
EVI:Neutralised:neutralised by the tension of the rope; what determines the magnitude
SEQ:Unless:Have
EVI:Plays:light plays the part of the man walking along relatively to the
EVI:Direction:acts outwards in a radial direction, and which would be interpreted as
SEQ:Time:Shown
EVI:Well:distance being measurable and well defined from a physical point of
SEQ:Those:Former
CON:Reflecting
EVI:Suggest:seems to suggest that, for the present at any rate, there is little
EVI:Your:legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
CON:Fictitious
EVI:Traversed:traversed the whole spherical space. It is easily seen that the
CON:Analogy
SEQ:Absolutely:Nothing
EVI:Reference:point on the non-rigid reference-body. These clocks satisfy only the
CON:State
EVI:Form:the form of radiation without suffering an alteration in velocity in
EVI:Means:space means nothing else than that we imagine an epitome of our “space”
CON:Conclusions
EVI:Small:spherical “world” and not on a Euclidean plane, for a small part of a
SEQ:Experiment:Decided
EVI:Photograph:positions of the stars on the eclipse-photograph ought to appear
CON:Agrees
EVI:Point:conformably to this point of view.
EVI:According:co-ordinates _x_1, _x_2, _x_3. It is due to this fact that, according
EVI:Only:“reference-body” and derivable from them; only _experience_ can decide
EVI:Distance:we require a “distance” (rod _S_) which is to be used once and for all,
EVI:Thus:supply us with the same result as the first. Thus the length of the
EVI:Concept:concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
EVI:Curve:a curve, which we “three-dimensional beings” designate as a great
SEQ:Called:Straight
EVI:Astronomers:be expected of astronomers.[16]
EVI:Experience:We must experience many such surprises if the construction is to be
EVI:Distance:quantitatively. A clock, which is situated at a distance r from the
REL:Course:Time
EVI:Newton:mechanical laws of Galilei-Newton hold good exactly as they do with
SEQ:Each:Observers
CON:Sign
EVI:Perfectly:where _g_11, _g_12, _g_22, are magnitudes which depend in a perfectly
EVI:Velocity:another point: it is shown by calculation that for a given velocity _v_
EVI:Body:body of the gravitational field prevailing relatively to _K_. It is
EVI:Field:for this reason electrostatics is overthrown by the field-equations of
CON:Accelertion
EVI:State:significance, _i.e._ that it is independent of the state of motion of
SEQ:Depend:Motion
SEQ:Perhaps:Advisable
EVI:Berlin:Naturwissenschaften_, 1919, No. 35, p. 520: Julius Springer, Berlin).
EVI:Recognises:the brake, and that he recognises, in this the non-uniformity of motion
EVI:Become:become reconciled to this negative result, for reasons now to be
EVI:Axis:transmitted along the negative _x_-axis, we obtain the condition
SEQ:Short:Designate
SEQ:Equipment:Many
EVI:Flying:the flying raven from the moving railway carriage. we should find that
EVI:Project:and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
EVI:Joining:the line joining the free ends of these lines a “circle.” For a plane
SEQ:Relativity:Permits
EVI:Archive:http://www.marxists.org/reference/archive/einstein/index.htm
SEQ:Thoughts:Occult
EVI:Plausible:Maxwell-Lorentz theory so plausible, that the latter would have been
EVI:Distance:Two points of the _x′_-axis which are separated by the distance Δ_x′_ =
SEQ:Repulsions:Unless
EVI:Intended:The present book is intended, as far as possible, to give an exact
EVI:Containing:License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
EVI:General:Thus all our previous conclusions based on general relativity would
SEQ:System:System
EVI:Detail:embankment) have already been defined in detail in the preceding
EVI:Body:for instance, impossible to choose a body of reference such that, as
SEQ:Closed:Surfaces
EVI:Defect:any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
SEQ:Relativity:Days
CON:Defined
SEQ:Already:Twenties
REL:Evident:Practice
SEQ:Readings:Observed
EVI:Changing:transformation for changing over from one body of reference to another.
SEQ:Eddington:Cottingham
EVI:Values:these became meaningless if we choose values of _v_ greater than _c_.
EVI:Project:Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
EVI:Part:“simultaneous” plays a part. The concept does not exist for the
EVI:Body:the velocity of motion of the body emitting the light. The assumption
SEQ:Measurements:Part
REL:Endeavour:Present
SEQ:Section:Disappears
EVI:Empirical:empirical data, the investigator rather develops a system of thought
EVI:Longer:stars and systems of stars takes considerably longer. It is in no way
SEQ:Obtained:Measuring
EVI:Physicist:conscientiously thoughtful physicist into the greatest intellectual
EVI:Section:shall hardly be able to compare the results of the previous section
EVI:Real:into being something physically real in the space around it, that
EVI:Show:able to show that the velocity of propagation of light cannot depend on
EVI:Gravitational:the gravitational field in space must be a perfectly definite one, in
EVI:Ions:motions only in the case of electrons and ions; for other motions the
SEQ:First:Proceed
EVI:Pursue:we cannot pursue this course. The epoch-making theoretical
SEQ:Located:United
EVI:Simple:transformation, this simple relation between _x_ and _t_ involves a
SEQ:Relativity:Supplies
SEQ:Understanding:Methods
EVI:Additional:(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
EVI:Staff:outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.
EVI:Derive:relativity puts us in a position to derive properties of the
CON:Tube
SEQ:Then:Conflict
EVI:Galileian:any doubt to arise as to the prime importance of the Galileian
SEQ:Kind:Every
CON:Codes
EVI:Cases:experiment, we recognise that there must also be cases in which the
SEQ:Than:Imagine
EVI:Matter:ρ is the average density of the matter and _k_ is a constant connected
CON:Time
SEQ:Becomes:Existence
EVI:Known:we are then able to find how this known natural process appears, as
SEQ:Rods:Relative
EVI:Space:XVII. Minkowski’s Four-dimensional Space
REL:Condition:Things
REL:Equations:Transformation
EVI:After:find after some consideration that the answer to this question is not
EVI:Nature:independent of the nature and the condition of the body and always the
EVI:Relativity:which is foretold by the theory of relativity without the necessity of
EVI:Emitted:than he will see that emitted from _A_. Observers who take the railway
SEQ:Domain:United
EVI:Distance:distance or of action at a distance with an infinite velocity of
EVI:Already:arrangement of the remaining two sides of the square is already
SEQ:Planet:Venus
EVI:Method:the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
EVI:Position:We are now in a position to replace the provisional formulation of the
CON:Hundredth
EVI:Relativity:theory of relativity, is in general not possible in space-time
SEQ:Intersect:Each
SEQ:Something:Known
SEQ:Dimensional:World
SEQ:Only:Says
SEQ:Mechanics:Satisfactory
EVI:Strictly:and if Newton’s theory be strictly correct, we ought to obtain for the
SEQ:Only:Euclidean
SEQ:Expect:Instance
EVI:Where:is fulfilled in general, where λ indicates a constant; for, according
SEQ:Eclipse:Only
EVI:Dependent:systems in their behaviour would be dependent on the orientation in
EVI:Happen:whatever kind of body he may happen to use for the experiment._
SEQ:Space:Large
SEQ:Rightly:Declare
SEQ:Corrected:Influences
CON:Apparatus
SEQ:Supplemented:Such
EVI:Give:INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
EVI:Reference:(_b_) the railway carriage as reference-body,
SEQ:Judged:Clock
SEQ:Marked:Compared
SEQ:Experiences:Correspondingly
SEQ:Refer:Such
SEQ:Ordinates:Themselves
EVI:Refraction:is the index of refraction of the liquid. On the other hand, owing to
SEQ:Behaviour:Measuring
EVI:More:the latter, or, more correctly, round the common centre of gravity of
EVI:Electron:behaviour of the electron. We arrived at a similar conclusion in
SEQ:Replace:First
EVI:Produced:stars as compared with the spectral lines of the same element produced
SEQ:Through:Such
SEQ:Given:Velocity
SEQ:Purpose:Without
SEQ:Study:Motion
SEQ:Number:Such
EVI:Anisotropic:have never revealed such anisotropic properties in terrestrial physical
SEQ:Universe:Average
EVI:Amount:amount are assigned to adjacent points. The Gaussian coordinate system
EVI:Said:It follows from what has been said, that closed spaces without limits
EVI:Solution:solution of the difficulty was the right one. But on the basis of the
EVI:Conclusion:behaviour of the electron. We arrived at a similar conclusion in
SEQ:These:Systems
SEQ:Including:Make
EVI:Differently:by the earth.” Modern physics formulates the answer rather differently
EVI:While:of this expansion which lies “only” about 109 years ago, while physical
SEQ:Available:Furthermore
SEQ:Rectilinear:Motion
SEQ:Walking:Travels
SEQ:Only:Long
SEQ:According:General
SEQ:Choose:Galileian
EVI:Beings:our flat beings would find for this ratio the value
SEQ:Previous:Definition
EVI:Deletions:additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
EVI:Electronic:Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
SEQ:Thus:Pointed
SEQ:Drawn:Correspond
EVI:Same:supply us with the same result as the first. Thus the length of the
EVI:Acceleration:this jerk to a “real” acceleration (retardation) of the carriage. He
EVI:Character:description; it is not tied down to the Euclidean character of the
SEQ:Light:Course
EVI:Associated:Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
EVI:Date:within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
SEQ:Than:Without
EVI:Explained:be correct to within a few seconds of arc. This effect can be explained
CON:Deviate
SEQ:Laws:Country
SEQ:Attention:Here
SEQ:Clock:Goes
CON:Copy
EVI:Rigid:the surface of rigid bodies, and is dependent on the existence of
SEQ:Universe:Necessarily
CON:Draw
EVI:Slowly:will cause him to rise slowly towards the ceiling of the room.
EVI:Externally:To the middle of the lid of the chest is fixed externally a hook with
EVI:Hereditary:hypothesis of the hereditary transmission of acquired characters.
SEQ:Likewise:Equivalent
EVI:Transformation:This system of equations is known as the “Lorentz transformation.”[9]
EVI:Ebook:and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
SEQ:Brought:Coincidence
SEQ:Motion:Against
SEQ:Electrons:Ions
EVI:Rotation:rotation. According to a result obtained in Section XII, it follows
EVI:Immediate:immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
SEQ:License:Including
SEQ:Respect:Galileian
EVI:Distributing:access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
SEQ:Conclusiveness:Experiment
EVI:Reader:point to point without executing “jumps.” I am sure the reader will
EVI:Great:a curve, which we “three-dimensional beings” designate as a great
EVI:Such:even need to be of such a kind that we must regard _x_1, _x_2, _x_3, as
SEQ:Passing:Grazing
CON:Termed
EVI:Finite:in which we live is infinite, or whether it is finite in the manner of
EVI:Contradictory:fact that no empirical data had been found which were contradictory to
EVI:Measuring:rigid measuring-rods performed according to the rules and methods laid
SEQ:Show:Apparent
SEQ:Sensibly:Above
SEQ:Result:Admits
SEQ:Cloud:Even
EVI:Translation:not essential that the velocity of translation of _K′_ with respect to
SEQ:Curvature:Space
EVI:Less:less than 4π_r_2. With increasing values of _r, F_ increases from zero
SEQ:Located:North
SEQ:Relativity:Kinetic
EVI:Middle:To the middle of the lid of the chest is fixed externally a hook with
CON:Completed
SEQ:Definite:Value
EVI:Interpretation:theory of relativity the method of interpretation is incomparably more
SEQ:Increase:More
SEQ:Meant:Here
CON:Theoretical
EVI:Piece:medium. If, for instance, a magnet attracts a piece of iron, we cannot
EVI:System:empirical data, the investigator rather develops a system of thought
EVI:Every:_K_, but also with respect to every co-ordinate system _K′_ which is in
EVI:Tick:his own reference-body occupied by the stone at each tick of the clock
EVI:Present:the present time (1920; see[Note], p. 48), owing to the fact that the
EVI:Only:The principle we have made use of not only maintains that we may
SEQ:Rise:Slowly
SEQ:When:Carry
SEQ:Satisfy:Must
EVI:Connection:connection in which they actually originated. In the interest of
EVI:Theory:THE HEURISTIC VALUE OF THE THEORY OF RELATIVITY
EVI:Theories:deductions from two theories in Newtonian mechanics on the one hand,
SEQ:Identical:Indistinguishable
SEQ:Point:View
EVI:Moreover:lie “in reality” on a straight line or on a parabola? Moreover, what is
SEQ:Numerically:Velocity
SEQ:Velocity:Also
EVI:United:works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
CON:Revealed
EVI:Flowing:mentioned is flowing through the tube with a velocity _v_?
SEQ:Manner:Refinement
REL:Position:Defining
EVI:Readily:Aided by the following illustration, we can readily see that, in
EVI:Mass:theory of relativity has led is concerned with the conception of mass.
SEQ:Points:Rigid
SEQ:Mentioned:According
EVI:Statement:body of reference. The following statement corresponds to the
SEQ:Curves:Straight
EVI:Movement:perihelial movement of the orbit of Mercury remained over, the amount
SEQ:Experiment:Possible
EVI:Between:transformation, this simple relation between _x_ and _t_ involves a
SEQ:Transformation:Simple
SEQ:Followed:Preceding
SEQ:Used:Discussing
EVI:Continually:continually interfere with each other, owing to the impenetrability of
CON:Diminishes
EVI:These:event to those three plane surfaces. The lengths of these three
EVI:Question:this juncture the question of the validity of the principle of
EVI:Fact:justification in the fact that, of all closed surfaces, the sphere is
EVI:Require:along the embankment. In the first place we require to determine the
EVI:Spectrum:spectrum was definitely established by Adams in 1924, by observations
EVI:Simultaneously:would reach him simultaneously, _i.e._ they would meet just where he is
EVI:Available:fixed stars; but up to the present the examination of the available
CON:Rendered
CON:Professor
EVI:Increasing:increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
CON:Demands
SEQ:Than:Difference
SEQ:Specification:Lengths
SEQ:Another:Reference
SEQ:Definite:Arbitrary
SEQ:Connection:Sense
EVI:Relative:positions relative to the body of reference (railway carriage or
EVI:Professor:Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
EVI:Following:Obviously our problem can be exactly formulated in the following
SEQ:Such:Nature
EVI:Statistical:spectrum are certainly revealed by statistical investigations of the
EVI:Drop:travelling uniformly, and drop a stone on the embankment, without
SEQ:Explain:Sense
EVI:Determined:determined by applying the definition of time given in Section VIII.
EVI:Displacement:displacement of spectral lines be definitely traced to the
EVI:Form:transformed into a law of exactly the same form when, instead of the
SEQ:Physicist:Course
EVI:Following:following demands:
SEQ:Parts:Continuum
SEQ:Position:Months
EVI:Purely:means of purely theoretical operations (_i.e._ simply by calculation)
EVI:System:_x_ and the time _t_, and with respect to the system _K′_ by the
EVI:Constant:where the “inertial mass” is a characteristic constant of the
EVI:Hold:not hold with respect to the non-uniformly moving carriage. Because of
EVI:Surface:Euclidean three-dimensional space, then there exists for this surface
EVI:Magnitude:body towards the floor of the chest is always of the same magnitude,
EVI:Tested:deductions from the theory which admit of being tested by observation,
EVI:Indefinite:three numbers (co-ordinates) _x, y, z_, and that there is an indefinite
SEQ:Teachers:Reason
EVI:Travel:the length of the carriage in the direction of travel with a velocity
EVI:Flow:influence of the velocity of flow _v_ on the propagation of light is
CON:Share
EVI:Positions:positions of the clocks. We shall now examine this dependence
EVI:Independently:is clearly seen that there is no such thing as an independently
SEQ:Translation:Because
CON:Deep
EVI:Available:co-ordinates are generally not available; furthermore, the magnitudes
EVI:Before:of the case clearer by means of an appropriate comparison. Before the
EVI:These:coincide with these two points; for how else should we define the
EVI:Little:With reference to our little rods—defined as unit lengths—the marble
SEQ:Hold:Only
EVI:Brief:transformation. Or in brief: General laws of nature are co-variant with
EVI:Infinite:space it would be infinite. But calculation shows that in a
EVI:Light:influence of the velocity of flow _v_ on the propagation of light is
CON:Relations
EVI:Replaces:co-ordinates completely replaces the description with the aid of a body
EVI:Individual:1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
EVI:Valid:that this fundamental law can only be valid for bodies of reference _K_
EVI:Other:I am standing in front of a gas range. Standing alongside of each other
CON:Induction
SEQ:Observer:Poised
SEQ:Motion:Material
CON:Tangentially
EVI:Words:process a (large) number of times, or, in other words, by going from
EVI:Influence:influence of the velocity of flow _v_ on the propagation of light is
EVI:Also:[1] It follows that a natural object is associated also with a
REL:Continuum:Euclidean
EVI:Mass:conservation of the mass of a system becomes identical with the law of
EVI:Section:considered in Section XXIV. In contrast to ours, the universe of these
EVI:Corresponding:to a second Galileian system we shall suppose that the corresponding
EVI:Relativity:special theory of relativity has crystallised out from the
EVI:Magnitudes:how these magnitudes are to be regarded as results of physical
SEQ:Rope:What
EVI:Gutenberg:Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
EVI:Measurements:The results of the measurements confirmed the theory in a thoroughly
EVI:Beings:sphere-beings the circumference of a circle first increases with the
EVI:Clear:It is not clear what is to be understood here by “position” and
REL:Framework:Rods
EVI:Fixed:fixed stars; but up to the present the examination of the available
EVI:Fulfilled:defined is fulfilled. That my definition satisfies this demand is
SEQ:Maxwell:Body
CON:Vacuum
EVI:Conservation:The principle of relativity requires that the law of the conservation
EVI:Slightest:acknowledge, we cannot form the slightest conception, and we replace it
EVI:Main:line with the demands of the special theory of relativity. For the main
EVI:Principle:THE PRINCIPLE OF RELATIVITY (IN THE RESTRICTED SENSE)
SEQ:Finally:Whole
CON:Experimental
SEQ:Feel:Compelled
CON:Ensuring
SEQ:Judged:Galileian
EVI:Paragraph:unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.
SEQ:Also:Takes
SEQ:Eccentricity:Velocity
EVI:Have:_x_4 (co-ordinates), which have not the least direct physical
EVI:License:THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
SEQ:Somewhat:More
EVI:Judged:As judged from _K_, the clock is moving with the velocity _v_; as
EVI:Plane:these beings say their universe is “plane,” there is sense in the
SEQ:Sphere:These
EVI:Inertial:XX. The Equality of Inertial and Gravitational Mass as an Argument for the General Postulate of Relativity
SEQ:Boltzmann:According
EVI:Xvii:XVII. Minkowski’s Four-dimensional Space
SEQ:Possibilities:Such
SEQ:Dimensions:Instance
SEQ:Unique:Specially
EVI:Heuristic:XIV. The Heuristic Value of the Theory of Relativity
SEQ:Definition:Space
SEQ:Measurement:Distance
SEQ:Universe:Being
EVI:Xviii:general principle of relativity given in Section XVIII by an exact
SEQ:Nevertheless:Space
SEQ:Ellipse:Corresponding
EVI:Independent:played a different and more independent rôle, as compared with the
EVI:Comply:Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
EVI:Called:with things called “straight lines,” to each of which is ascribed the
EVI:Newton:course from the theory of Newton, a small variation from the
EVI:Relative:distance _w_ relative to the railway line in a time which is equal to
EVI:Newton:According to Newton’s law of motion, we have
SEQ:Holds:Relatively
EVI:Relativity:propagation of light _in vacuo_ and the principle of relativity
EVI:Direction:one direction in the form which also results from the hypotheses of
EVI:Elapses:judged from this reference-body, the time which elapses between two
EVI:Important:Astronomical Society for the investigation of this important deduction.
SEQ:Accepted:Physicists
EVI:Exactly:define exactly the co-ordinates _x, y, z_ relative to the disc by means
EVI:Imperfections:according to the rules of Euclidean geometry. Hence the imperfections
EVI:Ellipse:been known that the ellipse corresponding to the orbit of Mercury,
EVI:Space:surmount this difficulty. We refer the four-dimensional space-time
SEQ:Evident:Must
EVI:Answer:with respect to the railway embankment? Is there a thinkable answer to
SEQ:Disc:Increases
EVI:Precision:perihelion with precision.
EVI:Possible:then resolve themselves into propositions on the possible relative
REL:Variable:Detail
SEQ:Chosen:Being
SEQ:Viewed:Copied
CON:Harmless
EVI:Intermediary:as instantaneous actions at a distance (not involving an intermediary
CON:Gaussian
CON:Investigators
SEQ:Show:Clearly
EVI:Have:“counter-point” to the starting point. Under such conditions they have
EVI:Light:propagation of light _in vacuo_. Those of you who have carefully
EVI:Modified:Classical mechanics required to be modified before it could come into
EVI:Namely:obvious consideration of Section VI. Namely, if the man in the carriage
EVI:Making:experience, by making use of
CON:Sure
SEQ:Evidence:Appertaining
EVI:Electronic:of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
EVI:Defects:of reference, without suffering from the defects of the latter mode of
SEQ:Value:First
EVI:Other:If _K_ is a Galileian co-ordinate system. then every other co-ordinate
EVI:Galileian:on the Galileian transformation we should not have obtained a
EVI:Interval:little rod, which has been used as a “distance” (line-interval). By
SEQ:Conformable:General
EVI:Existence:Now we might easily suppose that the existence of a gravitational field
EVI:Applicable:violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
CON:Approaches
REL:Inertia:Large
SEQ:Work:Easily
EVI:Uniformity:the brake, and that he recognises, in this the non-uniformity of motion
EVI:Rope:determines the magnitude of the tension of the rope is the _inertial
EVI:Measuring:about the physical behaviour of measuring-rods and clocks from the
CON:Heavens
SEQ:Measuring:Then
CON:Receipt
REL:Question:Tested
EVI:Description:foundation for the physical description of all natural phenomena. At
REL:Experiment:Concerned
SEQ:Sense:Doppler
SEQ:General:Information
SEQ:Newton:Known
REL:Places:Such
EVI:Particular:Light travels in a motionless liquid with a particular velocity _w_.
SEQ:Then:Dilemma
EVI:First:as compared with 1, we can replace (B) in the first place by
EVI:Motherly:the empirical physical foundations of the theory in a “step-motherly”
EVI:Same:same for a given gravitational field, then the ratio of the
SEQ:Several:Printed
EVI:Numerous:favour of the theory of relativity, are too numerous to be set forth
SEQ:Required:Numerical
SEQ:Course:Those
CON:Sequence
SEQ:Gravitational:Potential
EVI:Generalised:result we have gained a powerful argument for a generalised postulate
SEQ:Velocity:Another
EVI:General:XX. The Equality of Inertial and Gravitational Mass as an Argument for the General Postulate of Relativity
SEQ:Have:Placed
CON:Assignment
EVI:Preceding:accordance with the discussion contained in the preceding section, it
EVI:Rest:is at rest relatively to it as at rest, so long as the mollusc is
SEQ:Quite:Rest
SEQ:Other:Without
EVI:Logical:the basis of a logical process, the justification of which we feel
EVI:Body:particular time; unless we are told the reference-body to which the
EVI:Translated:Translated: Robert W. Lawson (Authorised translation)
EVI:Meaning:statement of time refers, there is no meaning in a statement of the
SEQ:Therefore:Apply
EVI:Ordinate:is a logical generalisation of the Cartesian co-ordinate system. It is
SEQ:Receive:Refund
SEQ:Space:Every
EVI:Work:defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
EVI:Apparently:relativity. But a simple and apparently quite reliable consideration
EVI:Galilei:Galilei) is executing an accelerated and in general curvilinear motion
SEQ:Namely:Carriage
EVI:Theory:XVI. Experience and the Special Theory of Relativity
EVI:Gutenberg:This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
CON:Accepted
EVI:When:itself when we attempt to apply our earlier definition of simultaneity
SEQ:Imaginary:Variable
SEQ:Devoid:Rotation
EVI:Foundation:from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
SEQ:Particular:Time
SEQ:Sought:Accordance
SEQ:Lieu:Refund
SEQ:Definition:Satisfies
EVI:Justified:justified, every intellect which strives after generalisation must feel
CON:Usual
EVI:Theory:To what extent is the special theory of relativity supported by
SEQ:Central:Symmetry
SEQ:Possible:Incomplete
EVI:Ordinates:Moreover, at this stage the definition of the space co-ordinates also
SEQ:Clearer:Means
SEQ:Donations:States
SEQ:Imagine:Process
EVI:Careful:_K0_ throughout the whole year. However, the most careful observations
EVI:More:is clear that Gauss co-ordinates are nothing more than an association
EVI:Here:railway line. Here the following method suggests itself. If we call
CON:Instance
SEQ:Described:Four
EVI:Then:whilst the other does not, then I shall remain astonished and
EVI:Rods:our rods in experiments analogous to the one described above, then our
SEQ:Show:What
SEQ:Paragraph:Work
EVI:Results:results the latter theory has hitherto evinced.
EVI:Simultaneously:one condition, that the “readings” which are observed simultaneously on
EVI:Construction:manner. We imagine two clocks of identical construction; the man at the
SEQ:Possessing:Kind
SEQ:Field:Measuring
EVI:System:in the transition from one such system to another.
SEQ:Important:Development
EVI:Connected:case, and how this question is connected with the general postulate of
CON:Revolving
EVI:Form:the first to introduce the hypothesis that the form of the electron
SEQ:Achieved:Merely
EVI:Ordinate:number of such systems of values, the co-ordinate values of which are
EVI:Following:with this answer for the following reason. Supposing that as a result
EVI:Comprehensive:to the introduction of a more comprehensive theory, in which it lives
EVI:Immediately:perhaps this feeling of proud certainty would leave you immediately if
EVI:Constituted:Every general law of nature must be so constituted that it is
EVI:Points:of designated points of reference.
SEQ:Meet:Physical
SEQ:Request:Explain
SEQ:Idea:Contributed
EVI:Consider:field itself. Let us consider this for a moment.
SEQ:Clearly:Accompanying
SEQ:Body:Accelerated
SEQ:Immediate:Vicinity
SEQ:Foundation:Physical
SEQ:Motion:Must
EVI:Meaningless:these became meaningless if we choose values of _v_ greater than _c_.
SEQ:Distance:Action
SEQ:Show:General
SEQ:Chosen:According
CON:Donate
EVI:Shall:somewhat arbitrary one. We shall only mention that with its aid
SEQ:Hours:Suggestive
SEQ:Leave:Here
SEQ:Ordinates:Example
EVI:Determining:universe, they have no means of determining whether they are living in
CON:Objects
EVI:Thus:is practically constant for a small part of the slab, and thus the
CON:Expansion
REL:Agree:Comply
SEQ:Basis:Illustration
EVI:What:But from what has been said, the two snapshots must be identical; hence
REL:Work:Provided
SEQ:Comparison:Regarded
CON:Damage
SEQ:Satisfy:Equation
EVI:Following:following manner. Experience has led to the conviction that, on the one
REL:Detour:Order
SEQ:Denote:Velocity
REL:Specifications:Position
EVI:Encounter:theoretical result is in accordance with the reality. We encounter the
EVI:More:four or more dimensions. If, for instance, a continuum of four
SEQ:Theory:Relativity
SEQ:Meet:Each
EVI:Simple:formulated in a particularly simple manner, and of course only on
EVI:Central:heat the central part of the marble slab, but not the periphery, in
EVI:Particular:necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
EVI:Incidence:estimated magnitude for light rays passing the sun at grazing incidence
SEQ:Follows:Condition
SEQ:Negative:Electrical
EVI:Holds:view, then the following formula holds:
EVI:Time:_x_ and the time _t_, and with respect to the system _K′_ by the
SEQ:Obtain:Section
EVI:Planet:ellipse of every planet round the sun must necessarily rotate in the
EVI:Reference:(Galileian) reference-body _K_ by the space-time variables _x′, y′, z′,
EVI:Does:and replaced by another which does not assume the validity of Euclidean
EVI:Supported:To what extent is the special theory of relativity supported by
EVI:Provided:PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
SEQ:Geometry:True
EVI:Charge:1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
EVI:Foundation:Literary Archive Foundation.”
EVI:Electronic:electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
EVI:About:briefly consider how this unification came about, and what meaning is
SEQ:Regard:Minkowski
SEQ:Previous:Editions
EVI:Continuum:slab is no longer a Euclidean continuum, and we are also no longer in
CON:Photographed
EVI:Corresponding:from large stars, as compared with the corresponding lines for light
EVI:Section:(SUPPLEMENTARY TO SECTION XXXII)
SEQ:Either:Special
SEQ:Handling:Problem
EVI:Physics:ON THE IDEA OF TIME IN PHYSICS
SEQ:However:Notice
EVI:Occur:assign an exact meaning to the natural laws in which these occur.
EVI:Choosing:choosing one corner of a square as “origin” I can characterise every
EVI:Theory:of atom).[23] These two deductions from the theory have both been
SEQ:Find:According
EVI:Take:observation. If we take our stand on the ground of classical mechanics,
SEQ:Transformed:Equation
CON:Unsolicited
CON:Translational
SEQ:Sufficiently:Small
SEQ:Only:Unanswerable
EVI:Matter:event, no matter how far off it may be, could also be localised with
EVI:Quite:We start off again from quite special cases, which we have frequently
EVI:Foregoing:Our train of thought in the foregoing pages can be epitomised in the
EVI:Statements:resolves itself into a number of statements, each of which refers to
EVI:Approximation:can thus as a rough approximation arrive at a conclusion as to the
SEQ:Present:Rate
EVI:Spectral:red ought to take place for spectral lines produced at the surface of
EVI:Specified:full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.
EVI:Fixed:orbit of the planet an ellipse, which is fixed with reference to the
EVI:Result:We thus obtain the following result: Every description of events in
EVI:Conceptions:priori;_ it is not contained in the conceptions of “motion” and
EVI:Quite:which the electrical masses are quite at rest relatively to each other,
EVI:Aroused:material and a psychological nature aroused by the war, these societies
EVI:Events:Thus we have obtained the Lorentz transformation for events on the
CON:Acknowledge
EVI:Reference:reference-bodies. If we replace _x, y, z_,
SEQ:State:Change
SEQ:Seen:Such
REL:Third:These
EVI:Line:direction, but that it would still be uniform and in a straight line.
SEQ:Renders:Likely
SEQ:Also:Termed
SEQ:Disregard:Fact
EVI:Least:least depend either on the material or on the physical state of the
SEQ:Suppose:Corresponding
EVI:Relativity:the demands of the (special) theory of relativity assume mathematical
EVI:Above:manner indicated above; that for all the planets, with the exception of
SEQ:Resemblance:Compilation
SEQ:Must:Necessarily
EVI:Purely:gravitational field in a purely theoretical manner. Let us suppose, for
EVI:Section:I. Simple Derivation of the Lorentz Transformation (supplementary to section XI)
SEQ:Performs:Experiments
EVI:Consideration:the gravitational field under consideration is of a special kind. In
SEQ:Then:Observer
EVI:Order:In order to have a _complete_ description of the motion, we must
EVI:Fixed:every fixed star describes a circle of immense radius in the course of
EVI:Together:so close together as to give continuity; corresponding to the material
EVI:Large:transformation by substituting an infinitely large value for the
CON:Statements
EVI:Dense:on the dense companion of Sirius, for which the effect is about thirty
EVI:Truth:We can now legitimately ask as to the “truth” of geometrical
EVI:Other:K′_ is unique (lit. “specially marked out”) as compared with the other.
EVI:Surface:geometrical relationships in the surface, and thus pointed out the way
SEQ:Length:Velocity
REL:Rules:Euclidean
REL:Ordinates:Euclidean
EVI:Modification:[5] A refinement and modification of these views does not become
EVI:Relatively:the same mechanical laws hold relatively to the non-uniformly moving
EVI:Particular:respect to the body of reference chosen in the particular case in
EVI:Result:carriage experiences a jerk forwards as a result of the application of
REL:Conception:Distance
SEQ:Brakes:Then
EVI:Lines:with things called “straight lines,” to each of which is ascribed the
EVI:Light:direction is the same as that of the ray of light, but its velocity of
EVI:Relativity:Before the advent of relativity, physics recognised two conservation
EVI:Mechanics:XXI. In What Respects are the Foundations of Classical Mechanics and of the Special Theory of Relativity Unsatisfactory?
EVI:Validity:they are nothing more than the expression of the universal validity of
EVI:Points:point with particular points of the reference-body. We can also
SEQ:Individual:Project
EVI:Only:This primitive method of place specification deals only with places on
EVI:Laws:derivation of laws, and—what is incomparably more important—it has
SEQ:Compensate:Difference
EVI:Body:since the equations of such a theory hold for every body of reference,
EVI:Determine:is hovering over Trafalgar Square, then we can determine its position
EVI:Most:special kind. This hope has been realised in the most beautiful manner.
SEQ:Closed:Surface
SEQ:Light:Latter
EVI:Also:But speculations on the structure of the universe also move in quite
SEQ:According:Position
SEQ:Except:Following
EVI:Means:surface by means of a square made up of measuring-rods. If the universe
CON:Reports
EVI:Marble:that the marble slab is a “Euclidean continuum.” This can be done in a
EVI:Point:point with particular points of the reference-body. We can also
EVI:Visit:visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.
SEQ:Equations:Electrodynamics
EVI:Determined:up to a maximum value which is determined by the “world-radius,” but
SEQ:Particularly:Important
EVI:Occur:After some time perhaps the following answer would occur to you: “The
SEQ:Velocity:Direction
SEQ:Very:Exact
EVI:Moving:moving with the body.
EVI:Logical:were moving here in a logical circle.”
EVI:Means:must be placed on a new basis. It can only be got rid of by means of a
EVI:Other:seconds of arc per century for the planet Mercury, but for the other
EVI:Because:exactness that this velocity is the same for all colours, because if
EVI:Electronic:Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
SEQ:Bluish:Colour
SEQ:Light:Rays
EVI:Experiment:THEOREM OF THE ADDITION OF VELOCITIES. THE EXPERIMENT OF FIZEAU
EVI:Structure:electromagnetic structure of matter. This circumstance, however, does
SEQ:Relativity:Time
SEQ:Carriage:Must
EVI:Transformation:transformation. Or in brief: General laws of nature are co-variant with
EVI:Atmosphere:time the atmosphere is so strongly illuminated by the light from the
EVI:Reference:carriage as reference-body as when the rails are the body of reference.
EVI:Steam:the other. Both are half full of water. I notice that steam is being
SEQ:Theory:Thus
SEQ:Clock:Above
EVI:These:material and a psychological nature aroused by the war, these societies
SEQ:Mechanical:Description
EVI:Maintained:that this conclusion cannot be maintained.
SEQ:Nature:Found
CON:Absorbs
SEQ:Proceed:Give
EVI:Real:designating always the correspondence with a “real” object; geometry,
CON:Pronounce
SEQ:Some:Intermediary
EVI:Body:space involves the use of a rigid body to which such events have to be
SEQ:Acts:Outwards
EVI:Train:distance can be measured up. It is the simplest plan to use the train
EVI:Wish:do not believe we ought to if we wish to remain consistent; we must
EVI:Account:taking into account the properties of the propagation of light, we
SEQ:Remain:Astonished
CON:City
EVI:Relativity:based, in no way opposes the theory of relativity. Rather has the
EVI:Ideas:definite ideas, and from certain simple propositions (axioms) which, in
SEQ:Used:Associated
SEQ:Also:Longer
EVI:Copy:to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
SEQ:Profits:Derive
SEQ:Should:Itself
EVI:Tube:to the tube are thus known, and we require the velocity of light
EVI:Encounters:encounters of the body with clocks, in conjunction with the observation
EVI:Principle:XXIX. The Solution of the Problem of Gravitation on the Basis of the General Principle of Relativity
SEQ:Plane:Between
EVI:Region:rods on the central region of the table expand, whereas those on the
SEQ:Infinite:Calculation
SEQ:Finite:Limits
SEQ:Carriage:Remains
EVI:Moving:tenet thus: If, relative to _K_, _K′_ is a uniformly moving co-ordinate
SEQ:Present:Connection
EVI:Systems:systems in their behaviour would be dependent on the orientation in
EVI:Discussion:question leads to a general one. In the discussion of Section VI we
SEQ:Relativity:Motion
EVI:Attainable:attainable at the present time. After taking account of all the
EVI:Velocity:numerically equal to the velocity with which he is walking. Thus in
SEQ:Vertical:Direction
SEQ:Points:Space
EVI:Condition:The validity of the Lorentz transformation follows from this condition.
EVI:General:THE SOLUTION OF THE PROBLEM OF GRAVITATION ON THE BASIS OF THE GENERAL
CON:Agreement
EVI:Permanently:did not possess this velocity, then he would remain permanently at M,
EVI:Events:Are two events (_e.g._ the two strokes of lightning _A_ and _B_) which
CON:West
EVI:Wait:reason why we must wait for a total eclipse is because at every other
EVI:Repeating:continuously from one point to a “neighbouring” one, and repeating this
EVI:Infinity:This expression approaches infinity as the velocity _v_ approaches the
EVI:Have:with experience (Riemann, Helmholtz). These questions have already been
SEQ:Together:Must
SEQ:Trafalgar:Square
SEQ:Object:Whose
EVI:Theoretical:has neither empirical nor theoretical foundation. We can imagine
SEQ:Discussed:Preceding
EVI:Obtain:0. For this value of _t_ we then obtain from the first of the equations
SEQ:According:Theory
EVI:Matter:by the distribution of matter. This in itself is sufficient to exclude
EVI:Directly:physical definition of time which is made directly with the aid of
EVI:Planet:Newton’s theory, a planet moves round the sun in an ellipse, which
EVI:Clear:be clear even to the non-mathematician that, as a consequence of this
SEQ:Moving:Bodies
CON:Processes
EVI:Time:Thus, if we choose as time-variable the imaginary variable
EVI:Longer:slab is no longer a Euclidean continuum, and we are also no longer in
EVI:Have:result we have gained a powerful argument for a generalised postulate
EVI:Express:OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
EVI:Distance:the distance between the points being
SEQ:Extension:Special
SEQ:Reference:Mollusc
EVI:Principle:Since the introduction of the special principle of relativity has been
SEQ:Action:Distance
SEQ:Role:Theory
CON:Exclude
SEQ:Clearly:Until
SEQ:Eclipse:Comparison
EVI:Field:a gravitational field invalidates the definition of the coordinates and
REL:Body:Always
EVI:Curves:determine the behaviour of the rods relative to the _u_-curves and
EVI:Sufficiently:out from the following law: Material particles sufficiently far removed
SEQ:Imagine:Raven
EVI:Along:along the rails, the connecting line _AB_ should be measured up and an
SEQ:Agreement:Shall
REL:Desire:Adhere
CON:Individual
SEQ:Mathematical:Treatment
CON:Comparable
SEQ:Same:Light
SEQ:Observation:During
EVI:Formulation:XXVIII. Exact Formulation of the General Principle of Relativity
EVI:Being:have been made, their lengths being small compared with the dimensions
EVI:Must:Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
EVI:Gravity:the latter, or, more correctly, round the common centre of gravity of
SEQ:Royalty:Gross
EVI:Described:which can be described by co-ordinates such as _x1, y1, z1_, which may
SEQ:Thankfully:Surprised
EVI:Motion:of a metre. The rigid rod is thus shorter when in motion than when at
SEQ:Because:Efforts
SEQ:Obtain:Photographs
SEQ:Facts:Have
SEQ:Feature:Velocity
SEQ:Newtonian:Constant
SEQ:Corresponds:Brought
SEQ:Same:Kind
SEQ:Allow:Myself
SEQ:Room:Infinite
EVI:Instance:instance, that we know the space-time “course” for any natural process
SEQ:Every:Intellect
EVI:Works:electronic works
EVI:Became:these became meaningless if we choose values of _v_ greater than _c_.
SEQ:Required:According
SEQ:Direction:Means
EVI:Until:stars until we come to speak of the general theory of relativity. In
EVI:Already:you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
EVI:Termed:This system of equations is often termed the “Galilei transformation.”
EVI:Rest:mirror to the other and back again, if the whole system be at rest with
EVI:Lorentz:electrodynamics of Maxwell-Lorentz, on which the original theory was
SEQ:Left:Tailor
EVI:Shown:another point: it is shown by calculation that for a given velocity _v_
EVI:Observer:of Section XVIII. It is certainly true that the observer in the railway
EVI:Manner:manner to the little rods (or perhaps not at all) by the temperature of
SEQ:Relativity:Still
SEQ:Carriage:Motion
SEQ:Contradictory:Principle
CON:Differentiate
EVI:Reference:reference in our statement of the motion taking place. If it is simply
SEQ:Points:Situated
SEQ:Conceivable:Universe
CON:Formal
REL:Deflection:These
EVI:Area:spherical surface. We can specially measure up the area (_F_) of this
CON:True
CON:Know
EVI:Above:of which does not differ sensibly from the above mentioned +43 seconds
EVI:Corresponding:Corresponding to the same complex of empirical data, there may be
EVI:Motion:seconds, _i.e._ a somewhat larger time. As a consequence of its motion
EVI:Light:_An atom absorbs or emits light of a frequency which is dependent on
EVI:Thought:bring some one a few happy hours of suggestive thought!
SEQ:Really:Respect
EVI:Time:attainable at the present time. The sole exception is Mercury, the
SEQ:Slight:Displacement
SEQ:Connection:Actually
SEQ:Reason:Have
EVI:Value:we have to insert a particular value of _t_ (time of _K_), _e.g._ _t_ =
CON:Incompatability
EVI:Aged:computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
EVI:Result:result of this will be to stretch the rope so that it will hang
SEQ:Must:Likewise
EVI:Pointers:that they are set in such a manner that the positions of their pointers
EVI:Duration:momentary existence without duration, then it would to described in
EVI:Acceleration:large enough to effect the acceleration of the body. That which
EVI:Electrical:account of their nature. For since electrical masses of one sign repel
EVI:Transformation:SIMPLE DERIVATION OF THE LORENTZ TRANSFORMATION
EVI:Nature:reference-body) the laws of nature were to be as simple as possible.
EVI:Passing:passing through the surface _F_ of the sphere into its interior is
SEQ:Science:Soon
EVI:Maintain:me—and rightly so—and you declare: “I maintain my previous definition
EVI:Cast:After further consideration you cast a somewhat disdainful glance at
SEQ:Consequential:Punitive
REL:Basis:Euclidean
EVI:These:others; for any one of these laws would be founded just as little on
EVI:Result:different distances from the centre of the disc. This result is also
CON:Succeeded
SEQ:Accelerated:Respect
EVI:Making:equations of the same form when, by making use of the Lorentz
SEQ:Choose:Ordinates
REL:Xiii:Connection
EVI:Direction:How quickly does it travel in the direction of the arrow in the tube
SEQ:Ordinates:Have
SEQ:Considered:Form
EVI:Even:(“world”), even when only a relatively small part of their worldsphere
EVI:Satisfied:of the transmission of light in vacuo is satisfied for one and the same
REL:Sufficient:Exclude
SEQ:Kepler:Motion
SEQ:Section:Follows
SEQ:Masses:Move
SEQ:Universal:Validity
EVI:Reference:motion as our body of reference. We should then be justified (because
EVI:Refinement:are able to see the manner in which a refinement of the conception of
SEQ:Propagation:Dependent
SEQ:Propagated:According
SEQ:Destined:Become
EVI:Correctness:as to its correctness or incorrectness.
EVI:Overthrown:for this reason electrostatics is overthrown by the field-equations of
SEQ:Must:Yield
EVI:Enough:large enough to effect the acceleration of the body. That which
REL:First:Fourth
SEQ:Moving:Body
EVI:Derived:derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
EVI:Reference:so here it is impossible to build up a system (reference-body) from
SEQ:Even:Before
EVI:Classical:electron (rigid connection in the sense of classical mechanics), we
SEQ:Puzzled:Moment
SEQ:Stars:Because
EVI:Suitably:for a suitably chosen co-ordinate system, the velocities of the stars
SEQ:Rope:Chest
REL:Copy:Also
EVI:Forth:forth in Section 3 below.
EVI:Physical:distance being measurable and well defined from a physical point of
SEQ:Body:Might
SEQ:Question:Easily
SEQ:Space:Should
SEQ:Both:Lightning
EVI:Minkowski:MINKOWSKI’S FOUR-DIMENSIONAL SPACE (“WORLD”)
EVI:Reality:and to their flat “things” is the all-inclusive reality of their plane.
EVI:Hypothesis:while the original “static” hypothesis of space yielded the closure
SEQ:Table:These
EVI:Other:footpath the other. Each of the observers determines the position on
SEQ:Comes:Smaller
SEQ:Told:Reference
SEQ:Transmitted:Reaction
SEQ:Building:Euclid
EVI:More:more and more evident that classical mechanics affords an insufficient
EVI:Geometry:according to the rules of Euclidean geometry. Hence the imperfections
SEQ:Identically:Substitute
EVI:Classical:XXI. In What Respects are the Foundations of Classical Mechanics and of the Special Theory of Relativity Unsatisfactory?
SEQ:Substituting:Infinitely
EVI:Axis:only events which are localised on the _x_-axis. Any such event is
EVI:Exclusively:extends exclusively over the surface of the sphere. Are these beings
EVI:Poised:body.” On the other hand, an observer who is poised freely in space
SEQ:Full:Refund
EVI:Justified:The law of transmission of light, the acceptance of which is justified
EVI:Base:the universe only if we base our considerations on the state of the
EVI:Gutenberg:Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
SEQ:Development:Being
EVI:Small:course from the theory of Newton, a small variation from the
SEQ:Curved:Space
EVI:Geometrical:the axioms. The question of “truth” of the individual geometrical
EVI:True:correct (“true”) when it has been derived in the recognised manner from
SEQ:Formal:Addition
REL:Inclined:Reject
EVI:Special:gravitational field _G_, which was derived from the Galileian special
EVI:Anxiety:however, that this anxiety is unfounded. Let us consider, for instance,
SEQ:Nature:Said
CON:Effect
EVI:After:justified, every intellect which strives after generalisation must feel
SEQ:Practice:Shall
CON:Compilation
SEQ:Question:Leads
EVI:Question:question whether or not the motion of the earth in space can be made
SEQ:Ends:Overlapping
EVI:Phrase:on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
REL:According:Newtonian
SEQ:According:Special
EVI:Manner:marble slab. In like manner we imagine a system of _v_-curves drawn on
EVI:Inner:Suppose that the man in the chest fixes a rope to the inner side of the
EVI:Must:at every position on the table. But our construction of squares must
SEQ:Arises:These
EVI:Obtained:But there are two classes of experimental facts hitherto obtained which
SEQ:Examination:Available
EVI:Consideration:reference _K′_, our consideration also teaches us how the gravitational
SEQ:Where:Prevailing
EVI:Laws:then these general laws of nature (_e.g._ the laws of mechanics or the
EVI:Purpose:two points on a rigid body by means of measurements. For this purpose
EVI:Advance:man advance relative to the embankment during the process? The only
SEQ:Theoretical:Structure
CON:Years
EVI:Main:Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
SEQ:Dimensional:Ordinates
EVI:Correspond:events _A_ and _B_ also correspond to positions _A_ and _B_ on the
REL:Obtained:Section
CON:Solution
EVI:Every:every point of the continuum (event) four numbers, _x_1, _x_2, _x_3,
EVI:Considerably:stars and systems of stars takes considerably longer. It is in no way
SEQ:Relativity:Most
EVI:Email:Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
EVI:Following:theory, with which we shall deal later. In the following pages we shall
EVI:Place:as compared with 1, we can replace (B) in the first place by
SEQ:Maximum:Then
SEQ:Refer:Domain
SEQ:Uniformly:Call
EVI:Against:against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
SEQ:Number:Difficulty
CON:Astronomical
EVI:Recent:the more recent development of electrodynamics and optics it became
EVI:Rods:Let us now imagine that a large number of little rods of equal length
SEQ:Vicinity:Space
EVI:General:the general laws of nature._”
EVI:Behaviour:XXIII. Behaviour of Clocks and Measuring-Rods on a Rotating Body of Reference
SEQ:Part:Very
EVI:Numerical:description of position, it should be possible by means of numerical
SEQ:Respect:Results
EVI:View:In view of the resuIts of these considerations we are led to the
CON:Evidence
SEQ:These:Inadequate
CON:Dust
SEQ:When:Gravitational
EVI:Until:these squares until finally the whole marble slab is laid out with
EVI:Order:“upwards,” in order to arrive at the corner of the square under
SEQ:About:Ebooks
EVI:Velocity:are small compared with the velocity of light, we then obtain as a
EVI:Probable:from a Euclidean one, and this notion seems all the more probable,
SEQ:Found:Foundation
SEQ:Than:When
EVI:Awakened:awakened by thoughts of the occult. And yet there is no more
SEQ:Movement:Apparent
EVI:Might:small amount. This non-rigid reference-body, which might appropriately
EVI:Result:for the following reason. As a result of the more careful study of
SEQ:Fifteenth:Printing
EVI:Made:The principle we have made use of not only maintains that we may
EVI:Also:necessarily also equal to _w_.
REL:Motion:Mercury
EVI:Given:_W_, then this is given by the equation (A) or (B), according as the
SEQ:Distance:Respect
SEQ:Mathematically:Characterise
EVI:Precept:the presentation. I adhered scrupulously to the precept of that
SEQ:Laws:Course
EVI:First:that there was no such field for the co-ordinate system first chosen.
EVI:Mass:(Force) = (inertial mass) x (acceleration),
SEQ:According:Result
EVI:Believe:do not believe we ought to if we wish to remain consistent; we must
SEQ:Systems:Stars
EVI:Full:START: FULL LICENSE
EVI:Then:arbitrary? The method of Cartesian coordinates must then be discarded,
EVI:Robert:Translator: Robert W. Lawson
SEQ:Place:Simply
EVI:Space:definitions for the signification of time- and space-data with
EVI:True:of Section XVIII. It is certainly true that the observer in the railway
SEQ:Independent:Choice
EVI:Bodies:For this reason non-rigid reference-bodies are used, which are as a
SEQ:Whole:Year
EVI:Maxwell:can be represented in the Maxwell-Lorentz theory only by the
SEQ:Relying:Knowledge
EVI:Relativity:general principle of relativity. But in what follows we shall soon see
SEQ:Method:Place
EVI:Every:If _K_ is a Galileian co-ordinate system. then every other co-ordinate
REL:Means:Numerical
EVI:Only:is always only an _apparent_ one. We might also think that, regardless
SEQ:Imagine:Form
EVI:Only:(non-rotating) system _K_ as reference-body, since we may only assume
EVI:Reference:orbit of the planet an ellipse, which is fixed with reference to the
EVI:Body:reference-body _K_, we then find that they do not hold for a
EVI:Respect:_K_, but also with respect to every co-ordinate system _K′_ which is in
EVI:Well:equally well choose the carriage or the embankment as our
EVI:Becomes:conservation of the mass of a system becomes identical with the law of
EVI:Embankment:(_a_) the embankment as reference-body,
EVI:Project:obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
SEQ:Clocks:Freely
EVI:Event:embankment. How are we to find the place and time of an event in
SEQ:Plays:Part
CON:Brief
SEQ:Hence:Idea
EVI:Distribution:distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
EVI:Every:set forth in Section V. For, like every other general law of nature,
EVI:Operative:with the distance from operative bodies. It is something like this: The
SEQ:Owing:Fact
EVI:First:ticks of this clock. The first and fourth equations of the Lorentz
SEQ:Fulfilled:Definition
SEQ:Fact:Universe
EVI:Represent:If we represent the difference of potential of the centrifugal force
EVI:Body:Thus the body has the same energy as a body of mass
EVI:Namely:laws of fundamental importance, namely, the law of the conservation of
CON:Interior
EVI:Gravitational:small for the gravitational fields at our disposal in practice, its
EVI:Relative:determine the behaviour of the rods relative to the _u_-curves and
EVI:Question:this question of such a nature that the law of transmission of light
SEQ:Imagine:Three
EVI:Rigid:therefore follows that the length of a rigid metre-rod moving in the
EVI:Virtue:demands of a natural law, and in virtue of this, the theory becomes a
SEQ:Movement:Orbit
SEQ:Relativity:Propagation
SEQ:Order:Equation
EVI:During:observation during a total eclipse of the sun. At such times, these
EVI:Train:itself as reference-body (co-ordinate system). An observer in the train
EVI:Velocity:Of course this feature of the velocity _c_ as a limiting velocity also
EVI:Strictly:considerations only for the case, which is never strictly realised, in
SEQ:Only:After
SEQ:Accurately:Expressed
CON:Guilty
SEQ:Results:Measurements
CON:Planets
EVI:Left:[2] Here we have assumed that there is nothing left over _i.e._ that
EVI:Replacement:transformations. which corresponds to the replacement of the
SEQ:Relative:Disc
EVI:Relativity:and in the special theory of relativity we therefore differentiate
EVI:Ordinates:“space” co-ordinates and _x_4, as a “time” co-ordinate.
SEQ:Making:Fact
SEQ:Reference:Carriage
EVI:Careful:co-ordinates have no significance? More careful consideration shows,
SEQ:Until:Construction
SEQ:Sufficient:Exclude
SEQ:Then:Should
EVI:Settings:position, of the pointers of the other clock, then identical “settings”
CON:Forming
SEQ:Deductible:Full
SEQ:Empirical:Evidence
EVI:Work:electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
SEQ:Physics:Measurement
CON:Contain
EVI:Taking:attainable at the present time. After taking account of all the
SEQ:Assumptions:Theories
SEQ:Chest:Able
CON:Notifies
SEQ:Coordinate:Systems
EVI:Satisficd:is satisficd identically. That is to say: If we substitute their
SEQ:Stars:These
EVI:Magnitudes:co-ordinates are generally not available; furthermore, the magnitudes
EVI:Respect:relative motions of the fixed stars with respect to the earth on the
EVI:Curves:table. These we designate as _u_-curves, and we indicate each of them
CON:Encounter
SEQ:Referred:Resulting
SEQ:Otherwise:Deduction
CON:Costs
SEQ:Here:Neighbouring
SEQ:Consequence:Walking
EVI:Ellipsoid:following form. If we are given a surface (_e.g._ an ellipsoid) in
EVI:Action:Faraday-Maxwell interpretation of electromagnetic action at a distance
EVI:More:generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
SEQ:Required:Modified
SEQ:Newton:Number
CON:Walks
SEQ:Imagine:Existence
EVI:Fixed:fixed stars are bodies for which the law of inertia certainly holds to
EVI:Consists:This consists of three plane surfaces perpendicular to each other and
SEQ:Since:Justified
SEQ:Point:Trajectory
SEQ:Reject:Principle
EVI:Possession:possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
EVI:Know:have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
CON:Case
EVI:Proved:[Note] The equation E = mc2 has been thoroughly proved time and again
EVI:Seen:the body of reference. But we have just seen that this assumption is
EVI:Form:any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
CON:Rise
EVI:General:general, in every gravitational field, a clock will go more quickly or
CON:Seeliger
EVI:Differ:several theories, which differ from one another to a considerable
EVI:Simultaneity:at a definition of simultaneity.”
SEQ:Bands:Have
EVI:Requirements:with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
SEQ:Nature:Variant
SEQ:Same:General
SEQ:Body:These
EVI:Place:whatsoever, as regards the manner in which it takes place in the
SEQ:Hence:Intensity
EVI:According:according to Section XXI the general theory of relativity cannot retain
EVI:Hypothesis:introduce the hypothesis that the force of attraction between mutually
EVI:Foregoing:from the foregoing considerations, and which has been most elegantly
EVI:Rigid:indeed every other process) to a rigid reference-body (co-ordinate
SEQ:Aided:Following
EVI:Terms:active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
SEQ:Mechanical:Behaviour
EVI:Different:showed that a different hypothesis was natural from a purely
EVI:Relativity:that in physics, before the advent of the theory of relativity, time
SEQ:Work:Must
SEQ:Simultaneity:Reader
SEQ:Exclusively:Over
EVI:Physics:by the earth.” Modern physics formulates the answer rather differently
EVI:Present:fixed stars; but up to the present the examination of the available
EVI:Position:specifications of position must always be sought in accordance with the
CON:Intellectual
SEQ:Clocks:Motion
EVI:Theoretical:theoretical point of view. He realized that it was possible to preserve
SEQ:Train:Measured
CON:Spirit
SEQ:Domain:Reference
SEQ:Considerably:Reduced
EVI:More:they are nothing more than the expression of the universal validity of
REL:Limitation:Certain
EVI:Motion:motion, then relative to _K′_ there exists a gravitational field which
EVI:Collection:goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
CON:Data
CON:Attempts
CON:Attempted
EVI:Slightly:universe. But it is conceivable that our universe differs only slightly
EVI:Same:indisputable. That light requires the same time to traverse the path
EVI:Standpoint:both clocks go at the same rate from the standpoint of the non-rotating
EVI:Hypotheses:My original considerations on the subject were based on two hypotheses:
SEQ:Revolution:Earth
SEQ:According:Foregoing
EVI:Equation:[Note] The equation E = mc2 has been thoroughly proved time and again
EVI:Circular:shall imagine _K′_ to be in the form of a plane circular disc, which
SEQ:Time:Single
SEQ:Rotation:Then
EVI:Large:large enough to effect the acceleration of the body. That which
EVI:Theory:According to the general theory of relativity, the major axis of the
SEQ:Paying:Copyright
EVI:Form:following form. If we are given a surface (_e.g._ an ellipsoid) in
EVI:Accordance:in place of _t_, as time-variable. If, in accordance with this, we
SEQ:Nature:Specification
EVI:Dimensional:Euclidean three-dimensional space, then there exists for this surface
REL:Motion:These
EVI:Electronic:electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.
SEQ:Such:Away
EVI:Such:in the transition from one such system to another.
SEQ:Statements:Each
EVI:Speak:We shall speak of its essential significance later.
SEQ:Lorentz:Transformation
REL:Free:Move
EVI:Towards:body towards the floor of the chest is always of the same magnitude,
SEQ:Physical:Statements
EVI:Book:In your schooldays most of you who read this book made acquaintance
EVI:Case:dials. It is just the same in the case of space-measurements by means
EVI:Reference:always choose another reference-body such that _no_ gravitational field
EVI:Relative:to _K′_. In short, we can designate _v_ as the relative velocity of the
EVI:Point:definite value of _u_ belongs to every point on the surface of the
CON:Measured
EVI:Agent:trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
EVI:Line:points on a rigid body, we can construct the line joining them
SEQ:Rest:Embankment
SEQ:Mathematical:Apparatus
EVI:Doing:measuring-rods. In doing so, it is his intention to arrive at exact
SEQ:Point:Mark
EVI:Other:the centre of the circular disc, and the other on the edge of the disc,
CON:Constants
EVI:Localised:only events which are localised on the _x_-axis. Any such event is
SEQ:Ticks:Clock
SEQ:Same:Order
SEQ:Simultaneous:Train
SEQ:Illuminated:Light
EVI:Exceed:one perhelion and the next should exceed that corresponding to one
SEQ:Neighbourhood:Photographed
REL:Perceptible:Terrestrial
SEQ:World:Bears
CON:Practice
EVI:Have:field is absent _i.e._ which have already been fitted into the frame of
SEQ:Become:Evident
CON:Compelled
SEQ:Behaviour:Electron
SEQ:Additional:Cost
SEQ:Diagram:Between
SEQ:Difference:Potential
EVI:Possibilities:here. In reality they limit the theoretical possibilities to such an
SEQ:Static:Hypothesis
CON:Access
EVI:Terms:royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
CON:Frequently
SEQ:Stars:Systems
SEQ:Being:Measured
SEQ:Obtain:Equations
SEQ:Corresponds:Angle
CON:Attracts
CON:Interaction
EVI:Only:velocity, and requires no consideration if we are only dealing with the
EVI:Gravitational:(_b_) Deflection of Light by a Gravitational Field
EVI:Respects:XXI. In What Respects are the Foundations of Classical Mechanics and of the Special Theory of Relativity Unsatisfactory?
EVI:Exactly:transformed into a law of exactly the same form when, instead of the
EVI:These:definition of time. We have to imagine each of these clocks fixed at a
EVI:Referred:frequently referred, cannot claim any unlimited validity. A curvature
CON:Uniting
EVI:Status:DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state
EVI:According:According to the theory of relativity, action at a distance with the
EVI:Attach:itself, to which we cannot attach any meaning, but the motion with
REL:Idea:Relativity
SEQ:Copyright:Status
EVI:Imagine:in the diagram. Between the curves _u_ = 1 and _u_ = 2 we must imagine
SEQ:Then:Always
EVI:Body:reference-body as regards the domain considered, and the results of the
SEQ:Outside:Axis
EVI:Project:Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
EVI:Mass:Thus the body has the same energy as a body of mass
SEQ:Appreciate:Sufficient
EVI:Every:since the equations of such a theory hold for every body of reference,
EVI:Longer:had in his land, the accelertion of the chest will no longer be
EVI:Something:into being something physically real in the space around it, that
EVI:Data:Corresponding to the same complex of empirical data, there may be
EVI:Surface:on a spherical surface instead of on a plane. The flat beings with
SEQ:Another:Does
EVI:Success:equal right and equal success in the formulation of the general laws of
CON:Contrary
EVI:Concerned:however, is not concerned with the relation of the ideas involved in it
EVI:Physical:Hitherto I have purposely refrained from speaking about the physical
SEQ:Applied:Disc
EVI:Gravitational:propagated curvilinearly in gravitational fields._ In two respects this
SEQ:Experience:Have
SEQ:Followed:Previous
EVI:Disc:different distances from the centre of the disc. This result is also
SEQ:Only:Where
SEQ:Might:Also
SEQ:Classical:Celestial
SEQ:Possible:Means
EVI:Constitute:such encounters constitute the only actual evidence of a time-space
EVI:Legs:the chest. He must therefore take up this pressure by means of his legs
EVI:Itself:by the distribution of matter. This in itself is sufficient to exclude
EVI:Suggestion:I am very pleased with this suggestion, but for all that I cannot
EVI:Reference:other corner of a square with reference to this origin by means of two
EVI:Energy:Thus the body has the same energy as a body of mass
EVI:Realized:theoretical point of view. He realized that it was possible to preserve
EVI:Ordinates:(Gaussian co-ordinates). For example, the point _P_ in the diagram has
SEQ:Furnish:Important
EVI:Euclidean:EUCLIDEAN AND NON-EUCLIDEAN CONTINUUM
SEQ:Assumptions:Called
EVI:Other:other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
EVI:Also:relative to _K′_. Strictly speaking, such an æther-drift ought also to
EVI:Consequence:consequence of their measurements.
EVI:Clearly:form, which renders it yet more clearly intelligible than it is when in
SEQ:License:When
SEQ:Nobody:Refer
EVI:Here:were moving here in a logical circle.”
CON:Height
EVI:Also:are thus led also to a definition of “time” in physics. For this
EVI:Independent:independent of the position and the condition of motion of the system
EVI:Studied:field influences the process studied.
SEQ:Radial:Direction
EVI:Position:would permanently maintain its position with respect to the fixed
SEQ:Meaning:Geometrical
EVI:Reference:(co-ordinate system); they regard all events in reference to the train.
SEQ:Little:Probability
EVI:Refers:body to which the specification of place refers; “Trafalgar Square,
CON:Attach
EVI:Before:that in physics, before the advent of the theory of relativity, time
EVI:Make:_A_ and _B_ far distant from each other. I make the additional
EVI:Difficulties:purchase our emancipation from the fundamental difficulties mentioned,
EVI:Photographic:This result admits of an experimental test by means of the photographic
EVI:Continuum:continuum in an arbitrary manner to Gauss co-ordinates. We assign to
SEQ:Embankment:Uniform
EVI:Regard:originally considered. That we have not been accustomed to regard the
EVI:Gravitational:gravitational field. just then, however, he discovers the hook in the
SEQ:Regard:Space
EVI:Experienced:curvature being similar to that experienced by the path of a body which
EVI:Lengths:measuring-rod. All the free end-points of these lengths lie on a
EVI:Unsuccessful:experiment would be unsuccessful. We shall suppose that the rods
EVI:Place:place of observation.
SEQ:Gradually:Decreases
EVI:Country:of the country where you are located before using this eBook.
SEQ:Train:Whose
CON:Snapshots
EVI:Have:surprised at this, even if I have never seen either a gas range or a
EVI:Points:the points _A, B_ and _C_ of the railway line (co-ordinate system) and
SEQ:Section:Derived
SEQ:Settled:Because
EVI:Ordinates:transformation of co-ordinates.
EVI:Closed:differ from 360°. The line of the orbit would not then be a closed one
EVI:When:with reference to the æther, this time _T′_ is different when the body
EVI:Gravitational:judged from it, the gravitational field of the earth (in its entirety)
SEQ:When:Derived
EVI:Date:Release date: October 1, 2009 [eBook #30155]
EVI:Recognise:interpretation can be obtained only if we recognise the following fact:
EVI:Differs:spherical surface differs only slightly from a piece of a plane of the
REL:Those:Quite
EVI:Keeping:comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
SEQ:Value:Belong
EVI:What:_w_. How quickly or, in other words, with what velocity _W_ does the
EVI:Space:MINKOWSKI’S FOUR-DIMENSIONAL SPACE (“WORLD”)
SEQ:Known:Incongruity
CON:Carriage
EVI:Third:is small compared with unity, the third of these terms is always small
EVI:Effect:effect of gravitation. The results of observation have been collected
SEQ:Maximum:Disclaimer
EVI:Works:will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
SEQ:Defective:Work
SEQ:Confirmed:Great
EVI:Surface:surface, the ratio of the circumference of a circle to its diameter,
EVI:Copy:any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
EVI:Galileian:Galileian domain relative to a Galileian body of reference _K_. By
SEQ:Current:Donation
EVI:Point:To every point of a continuum are assigned as many numbers (Gaussian
SEQ:Marked:Nonproprietary
CON:Insight
SEQ:Assume:Relative
EVI:Only:position in the continuum. Only when the continuum is a Euclidean one
SEQ:Mentioned:Another
EVI:Points:required, then both of these points are moving with the velocity v
EVI:Ellipse:planet which is revolving round the sun would describe an ellipse round
EVI:Revealed:spectrum are certainly revealed by statistical investigations of the
EVI:Question:question arises:
EVI:Nature:ideas correspond to more or less exact objects in nature, and these
CON:Spaces
EVI:Importance:[15] The objection is of importance more especially when the state of
EVI:Organpipe:organpipe placed with its axis parallel to the direction of travel
EVI:Payments:payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
EVI:Special:Relativity: The Special and General Theory
EVI:Newton:Newton-Kepler motion of a planet in its orbit should take place, and in
SEQ:Iines:First
EVI:Office:The Foundation’s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
EVI:Propagation:believes he knows, that this propagation takes place in straight lines
EVI:Relativity:relativity, is far from being unimportant and pardonable. It is now
EVI:Vaguely:Minkowski, which was only vaguely indicated in Section XVII. In
SEQ:These:Theorems
EVI:Term:classical mechanics. The first term _mc_2 does not contain the
SEQ:Obtained:Retaining
EVI:Dimensional:which belongs to two adjacent points of the four-dimensional space-time
EVI:Play:direction of the velocity of the carriage would necessarily play a
EVI:Suppose:reference, which we have styled a “railway embankment.” We suppose a
SEQ:Like:Ours
SEQ:These:Propositions
CON:Considerable
EVI:These:disagreement between these two fundamental results of experience? This
EVI:Obtaining:of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
EVI:Work:representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
SEQ:Regard:Meaning
EVI:Inclined:virtue of these ideas, we are inclined to accept as “true.” Then, on
EVI:Suggested:against a misconception suggested by these considerations. A
EVI:Systems:motions only to systems of coordinates relative to which the fixed
EVI:Things:hears of “four-dimensional” things, by a feeling not unlike that
EVI:Permitted:limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
SEQ:Became:Ripe
SEQ:Charge:Access
EVI:Conditions:“counter-point” to the starting point. Under such conditions they have
EVI:Point:of lightning occur, this point _M′_ naturally coincides with the point
EVI:Where:where the “inertial mass” is a characteristic constant of the
EVI:Ordinates:exactly to the three space co-ordinates in Euclidean geometry. It must
EVI:Events:the space-time coincidence of two events _A_ and _B_. In terms of
EVI:Gravitation:order to find out the general law-of-field of gravitation we still
EVI:Different:slightly different time _T′_ is required for this process, if the body,
EVI:Must:train as their reference-body must therefore come to the conclusion
SEQ:Since:Next
REL:Mode:Consideration
SEQ:Follows:Shall
EVI:Rotate:ellipse of every planet round the sun must necessarily rotate in the
CON:Happen
CON:Education
SEQ:Long:Moving
CON:Deceived
EVI:System:of Galilei-Newton can be regarded as valid only for a Galileian system
SEQ:Started:Assumption
EVI:Within:defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
EVI:Gauss:transition of one Gauss co-ordinate system into another.
SEQ:Clocks:Influenced
EVI:Space:Relative to _K′, the same event_ would be fixed in respect of space and
SEQ:Obtained:Rays
SEQ:Always:Valid
SEQ:Embankment:Describes
SEQ:These:Data
EVI:Body:with respect to the body of reference. A similar difficulty presents
CON:Nobody
EVI:Owing:of observation owing to their smallness.
SEQ:Obtaining:Copy
EVI:Further:without further opportunities to fix the problem.
CON:Surrounding
SEQ:Determine:Behaviour
SEQ:Squares:Made
EVI:Observer:If, then, the observer first measures the circumference of the disc
CON:Exceedingly
EVI:Velocity:direction of the velocity of revolution of the earth in the course of a
SEQ:Fact:Reality
SEQ:Velocity:Transmission
EVI:Derive:seen that the general theory of relativity enables us to derive
EVI:First:Since the publication of the first edition of this little book, our
SEQ:Observer:Must
EVI:Than:experiment which the brilliant physicist Fizeau performed more than
CON:Expeditions
EVI:Bluish:_possibly_ it may do so. If, however, I notice the bluish something in
SEQ:Ordinate:Differentials
EVI:Have:here we have the general case, corresponding to the marble slab with
EVI:Hence:For the origin of _K′_ we have permanently _x′_ = 0, and hence
EVI:Provided:unheard-of values—provided that we are viewing all this from another
SEQ:Relative:Person
CON:Held
EVI:Uncounted:staircase of which you were chased about for uncounted hours by
EVI:System:section. If instead of “body of reference” we insert “system of
SEQ:Term:Field
SEQ:Only:Conclude
EVI:Intellect:justified, every intellect which strives after generalisation must feel
EVI:Circle:circle continues to increase more and more, until finally it becomes
SEQ:Whilst:Other
SEQ:Remaining:Provisions
EVI:Foundation:1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
SEQ:Also:Expressed
EVI:Relation:words: Can we conceive of a relation between place and time of the
SEQ:Expressed:Fact
SEQ:Then:Able
EVI:Expressed:an encounter is expressed in the fact that the two lines which
SEQ:Construction:Placed
EVI:Gravitational:(_c_) Gravitational field and matter together must satisfy the law of
EVI:Reference:ALBERT EINSTEIN REFERENCE ARCHIVE
SEQ:Positions:Traversed
CON:Withhold
EVI:Dependence:positions of the clocks. We shall now examine this dependence
EVI:General:brought forward against the general principle of relativity at the end
EVI:General:rays required by the general theory of relativity is only exceedingly
SEQ:Work:Under
SEQ:Part:Electronic
EVI:Interpretation:interpretation is quite justified also from a physical point of view.
EVI:Such:system). As such a system let us again choose our embankment. We shall
EVI:Freely:body.” On the other hand, an observer who is poised freely in space
SEQ:Geometry:Just
CON:Appeals
EVI:Destined:nature. Such a finite material universe would be destined to become
EVI:When:abscissa _x′_ and the time _t′_. We require to find _x′_ and _t′_ when
SEQ:Access:Electronic
EVI:Then:differs from zero, however small may be that difference, then the
REL:Method:Cartesian
CON:Replaces
EVI:About:rotates uniformly in its own plane about its centre. An observer who is
CON:Despite
EVI:Positions:parabolic curve. I now ask: Do the “positions” traversed by the stone
EVI:Have:train. An event, wherever it may have taken place, would be fixed in
EVI:Theory:Nevertheless we must now draw attention to the fact that a theory of
SEQ:Question:Detecting
EVI:Velocity:plays the part of a limiting velocity, which can neither be reached nor
SEQ:Particular:Body
SEQ:Hitherto:Possible
EVI:Phenomena:As long as one was convinced that all natural phenomena were capable of
EVI:When:correct (“true”) when it has been derived in the recognised manner from
EVI:Cast:recognition of the fact, that we can cast doubt on the _infiniteness_
EVI:Designate:table. These we designate as _u_-curves, and we indicate each of them
EVI:Units:bodies. By a suitable choice of units we can thus make this ratio equal
SEQ:Satisfied:Both
SEQ:Energy:Conservation
EVI:Theory:The results of the measurements confirmed the theory in a thoroughly
EVI:Reference:Galileian domain relative to a Galileian body of reference _K_. By
EVI:Redistribute:1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
SEQ:Proved:Time
SEQ:Kinds:Transformations
EVI:Relative:embankment and relative to the train? This question leads to a quite
EVI:Certain:definite ideas, and from certain simple propositions (axioms) which, in
EVI:Theory:relativity that the special theory of relativity is overthrown by the
EVI:Association:is clear that Gauss co-ordinates are nothing more than an association
CON:Date
SEQ:Application:Theory
EVI:Equation:This equation expresses nothing else than the law of motion of the
EVI:Does:puzzled for a moment as to why the chest does not fall in this
EVI:Time:THE SPACE-TIME CONTINUUM OF THE SPECIAL THEORY OF RELATIVITY CONSIDERED
EVI:Disc:radius of the disc) tangentially to the edge of the disc, then, as
EVI:Euclidean:“Euclidean” four-dimensional continuum, a result which follows from the
EVI:Anyone:copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
REL:Theory:Gravitation
EVI:State:the universe only if we base our considerations on the state of the
SEQ:Mature:Consideration
EVI:Material:the mollusc is treated as a space-point, and every material point which
EVI:Unsatisfactory:XXI. In What Respects are the Foundations of Classical Mechanics and of the Special Theory of Relativity Unsatisfactory?
SEQ:Light:Those
CON:Pursue
EVI:Objects:ideas correspond to more or less exact objects in nature, and these
EVI:Continuum:So far, these considerations hold for a continuum of two dimensions.
EVI:Directly:including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
SEQ:Planet:Year
EVI:Doppler:only in the sense of Doppler’s principle, as an expansive motion of the
EVI:Rest:definition of time with the aid of clocks which are arranged at rest
EVI:Sense:these beings say their universe is “plane,” there is sense in the
EVI:Carriage:would be due to the fact that the carriage _K_ would be in motion
SEQ:Development:Electrodynamics
SEQ:Purposely:Refrained
SEQ:Being:Similar
SEQ:Itself:Circumstance
EVI:Very:invalid for another, is _a priori_ not very probable.
SEQ:Matter:Uniform
SEQ:Lorentz:Theory
CON:Plausible
SEQ:Simple:Possible
SEQ:Same:Magnitude
EVI:Theory:EXPERIENCE AND THE SPECIAL THEORY OF RELATIVITY
EVI:Matter:outset, that this matter lays no small claims on the patience and on
EVI:Powerful:as for instance by a powerful application of the brakes, then the
EVI:Data:situated there. These data must be supplemented by such a definition of
EVI:Fitzgerald:Lorentz and FitzGerald rescued the theory from this difficulty by
EVI:First:Unlike the first, this latter statement need not of necessity hold _a
EVI:Produces:body (_e.g._ the earth) produces a field in its immediate neighbourhood
EVI:Development:deductive thought in the development of an exact science. As soon as a
EVI:Same:gravitational to the inertial mass must likewise be the same for all
CON:Arbitrary
EVI:General:set forth in Section V. For, like every other general law of nature,
EVI:Calculation:calculation is not possible in the case of the stars, because in
EVI:Reference:requires that all these molluscs can be used as reference-bodies with
CON:Hypothesis
EVI:Assertion:some one were to ask you: “What, then, do you mean by the assertion
EVI:Subject:which we may subject the body, the propositions of Euclidean geometry
SEQ:Curves:Indicate
EVI:Deal:theory, with which we shall deal later. In the following pages we shall
EVI:Statements:to many points in motion. The only statements having regard to these
EVI:Free:• You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
EVI:Deflection:deflection of these rays under the influence of electric and magnetic
SEQ:Standpoint:Rotating
CON:Steam
EVI:Care:“neighbouring” events (realised or at least thinkable) as we care to
CON:Twenties
SEQ:Directly:Those
SEQ:Numbers:Known
SEQ:Words:Conceive
EVI:Infinitely:infinitely large gravitational fields being produced. We thus free
SEQ:Experience:Refer
EVI:Even:bodies can even be regarded as a measure of its energy. The law of the
EVI:Laid:rigid measuring-rods performed according to the rules and methods laid
CON:Functions
EVI:Profit:The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
SEQ:Root:Becomes
CON:Unexplained
EVI:Take:take part in the accelerated motion of the chest, and it transmits this
SEQ:Thus:According
SEQ:Understand:Agree
CON:Consist
SEQ:Retention:Separate
EVI:Interpretation:On the basis of the physical interpretation of distance which has been
EVI:Space:possible to choose a Galileian reference-body for this part of space
SEQ:According:Rules
SEQ:Uniformly:Moving
EVI:Defect:Defect you cause.
SEQ:Disclaimer:Damages
EVI:Dilemma:In view of this dilemma there appears to be nothing else for it than to
EVI:Dials:dials. It is just the same in the case of space-measurements by means
EVI:Complete:The analogy with (12) is a complete one. We can regard Minkowski’s
EVI:Coincidence:of the expression “coincidence in space.” This conception is
EVI:Paragraph:PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
EVI:Behaviour:mechanical behaviour is different from that of the case previously
EVI:Additions:additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
EVI:Method:theory of relativity the method of interpretation is incomparably more
EVI:Without:the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
EVI:Means:By means of comparatively simple considerations we are led to draw the
SEQ:Donations:Accepted
EVI:Paying:States without permission and without paying copyright
EVI:Numbers:three numbers (co-ordinates) _x, y, z_, and that there is an indefinite
EVI:Maxwell:Maxwell-Lorentz theory so plausible, that the latter would have been
SEQ:Supposition:Gravitational
EVI:Part:PART II: THE GENERAL THEORY OF RELATIVITY
EVI:Simple:co-ordinates which allowed of a simple and direct physical
SEQ:Euclidean:Four
EVI:Point:point. Thus for a co-ordinate system moving with the earth the mirror
EVI:Place:Place a metre-rod in the _x′_-axis of _K′_ in such a manner that one
EVI:Maintain:astronomy are to maintain their clearness, the physical meaning of
EVI:Respect:simultaneous with respect to the train, and _vice versa_ (relativity of
SEQ:Where:Located
REL:Metrics:Surrounding
SEQ:Expresses:Nothing
EVI:Surprising:in any other direction whatsoever. Of cause this is not surprising,
EVI:Laws:same laws, even in the case where the prevailing gravitational field is
EVI:Measure:bodies can even be regarded as a measure of its energy. The law of the
EVI:Gravitational:the equality of inertial and gravitational mass. Thus we have obtained
SEQ:Homogeneous:Functions
SEQ:Theoretical:Manner
EVI:Sole:for what follows. Bodies which are moving under the sole influence of a
SEQ:Moderate:Degree
EVI:Theoretical:broad basis for the theoretical presentation of all physical phenomena,
SEQ:Against:Apparently
EVI:Euclidean:lines in the sense of Euclidean geometry, and they are perpendicular to
SEQ:Carriage:Serves
EVI:Powerful:is very powerful argument in favour of the principle of relativity.
EVI:Obtained:equal to _c_. The same result is obtained for rays of light advancing
EVI:Sets:of two sets of numbers with the points of the surface considered, of
SEQ:Specified:Paragraph
EVI:Extension:the form of the natural extension of the special principle of
SEQ:Swamp:Small
EVI:Agree:PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
EVI:Space:between the space-expanse of the universe and the average density of
SEQ:Galileian:Fashion
SEQ:Having:Regard
CON:Cases
CON:Velocity
SEQ:First:Increases
SEQ:Incomplete:Experience
EVI:Towards:starting from the origin, I proceed towards the “right” and then
EVI:Table:rods on the central region of the table expand, whereas those on the
EVI:Motion:(_b_) The embankment is in motion relative to the carriage.
SEQ:Physical:Reality
SEQ:Whole:Space
EVI:Special:THE SPACE-TIME CONTINUUM OF THE SPECIAL THEORY OF RELATIVITY CONSIDERED
EVI:Coming:of our space without coming into conflict with the laws of thought or
EVI:Exact:the possibility of the exact validity of Euclidean geometry in our
SEQ:Evident:First
EVI:Thoroughly:[Note] The equation E = mc2 has been thoroughly proved time and again
EVI:Pardonable:relativity, is far from being unimportant and pardonable. It is now
EVI:Thus:straight line. Three points _A, B_ and _C_ on a rigid body thus lie in
EVI:When:We advance a step farther in our generalisation when we express the
SEQ:Decided:Less
EVI:Body:for the measurement of a distance, with respect to which body the
SEQ:Embankment:Have
EVI:These:embankment. These points _A_ and _B_ of the embankment can be
SEQ:Events:Taking
EVI:Fields:we are able to disregard the influences of gravitational fields on the
EVI:Properties:properties of space are not independent, but they are determined by
EVI:Upon:Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread
SEQ:Corresponds:Replacement
SEQ:Connection:Proceed
EVI:Essence:essence of the difficulty with which we were confronted in Section
SEQ:Transmitted:Velocity
SEQ:Relativity:Physics
SEQ:Mercury:Remaining
EVI:Like:beings is two-dimensional; but, like ours, it extends to infinity. In
EVI:Solution:problem of the greatest importance, the early solution of which is to
REL:Continuum:Four
EVI:More:experiment which the brilliant physicist Fizeau performed more than
EVI:Present:the present we shall assume the “truth” of the geometrical
REL:Statement:Simultaneity
SEQ:Exceeds:Angle
EVI:Springer:Naturwissenschaften_, 1919, No. 35, p. 520: Julius Springer, Berlin).
EVI:Take:to take for granted that the propagation of light always takes place
EVI:Fundamental:respect to the second framework. Without committing any fundamental
EVI:Reference:relativity” the following statement: All bodies of reference _K, K′_,
SEQ:Encounters:Mathematical
SEQ:Physics:Feel
EVI:Copies:1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
EVI:Copy:whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
EVI:Idea:introduction of the æther-idea, and hence there can be no æther-drift,
SEQ:View:Dilemma
SEQ:Tube:Velocity
EVI:Means:represented physically by means of the convention of two marks on a
SEQ:Shall:Discuss
SEQ:Amounts:About
EVI:Then:are small compared with the velocity of light, we then obtain as a
EVI:Often:Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
REL:Object:Associated
SEQ:Help:Classical
EVI:Contributions:number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
SEQ:Exactly:Same
CON:Best
SEQ:Relativity:Being
CON:Symbol
EVI:Special:The most important result of a general character to which the special
SEQ:Disregard:Motion
SEQ:Transformation:Corresponds
SEQ:Every:Orientation
EVI:Obtain:nature. In this connection we did not obtain the Galilei
EVI:Work:used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
CON:Text
EVI:Trademark:Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
EVI:Infinity:density of matter to be constant everywhere, even to infinity, without
SEQ:Judged:Disc
EVI:Experiences:occupant of the carriage experiences a correspondingly powerful jerk
EVI:Result:this law. On the contrary, we arrived at the result that according to
SEQ:View:Imagine
REL:Degree:Approximation
EVI:Laws:U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.
SEQ:Works:Paragraph
EVI:Events:differences for these two events are _dx′, dy′, dz′, dt′_. Then these
SEQ:Some:Resemblance
SEQ:Above:Planets
EVI:Contain:classical mechanics. The first term _mc_2 does not contain the
SEQ:Royal:Astronomical
CON:Eccentricity
EVI:Train:simultaneous with respect to the train, and _vice versa_ (relativity of
SEQ:Gaussian:Ordinates
EVI:Experiment:nor any experiment with which to demonstrate it. Here the contraction
SEQ:Formally:These
EVI:More:We can characterise the Lorentz transformation still more simply if we
EVI:Over:equations must pass over into equations of the same form; for every
SEQ:Something:Like
EVI:Transformation:that the relations of the Galileian transformation exist between the
EVI:Without:by the methods of geometry, but that it is in itself entirely without
SEQ:Embankment:Carriage
EVI:Project:To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
EVI:Gutenberg:of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
EVI:Strike:strike you as being very singular, and for that reason I shall now draw
EVI:Constant:along the rails with a constant velocity _v_, and that a man traverses
EVI:Correctly:electric fields can be derived correctly from electrostatic
CON:Action
EVI:Latter:first approximation the Newtonian theory. Thus the latter theory is
EVI:Because:regard the matter as quite settled, because I feel constrained to raise
EVI:General:general principle of relativity given in Section XVIII by an exact
EVI:Contain:contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
SEQ:Used:Give
EVI:Incidental:INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
SEQ:Distance:Events
EVI:Simultaneity:statement of simultaneity. (I would ask the reader not to proceed
SEQ:Resulting:Motion
SEQ:Point:Surface
EVI:Unavoidable:Hypothesis (2) appeared unavoidable to me at the time, since I thought
EVI:Photograph:instantaneous photograph by the distance
EVI:Numbers:described by four numbers, namely, three space co-ordinates _x, y, z_,
SEQ:Spirit:Lucidity
EVI:Relativity:﻿The Project Gutenberg eBook of Relativity: The Special and General Theory
EVI:Refer:surmount this difficulty. We refer the four-dimensional space-time
EVI:Show:phenomena connected with moving bodies show that experience in this
CON:Flame
CON:Next
EVI:Book:fifteenth re-printing of this book; and as a result is still under
EVI:Aberration:(aberration), and to the influence of the radial components of the
EVI:Accelerated:accelerated body. If now gravitation is the cause of the acceleration,
SEQ:Localised:Reference
EVI:Formal:_continuum_. Thus it is that mathematicians long ago solved the formal
EVI:Along:line (_e.g._ along the floor of the carriage) as many times as is
EVI:Postulates:equal to a constant _c_. By uniting these two postulates we obtained
EVI:Condition:the condition of transformation in exactly the same way as the space
SEQ:Contact:Information
SEQ:Might:Easily
EVI:Comes:thus comes out smaller than _c_.
EVI:Reference:same domain referred to a second body of reference _K′_, which is
EVI:Between:numbers lying between 1 and 2. We have then a system of _u_-curves, and
REL:Number:Little
SEQ:Necessarily:Come
EVI:Regard:regard the matter as quite settled, because I feel constrained to raise
EVI:Section:Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
SEQ:Those:Space
EVI:Particles:itself and sufficiently far removed from all other particles moves
EVI:Classical:classical mechanics, cannot be maintained; in other words, the law that
EVI:Preceding:considerations of the preceding section.
EVI:Following:The following statements hold generally: Every physical description
EVI:Condition:_x_-axis. It satisfies the condition
SEQ:Other:Associated
EVI:Here:here. In reality they limit the theoretical possibilities to such an
EVI:Instantaneous:velocity of light always takes the place of instantaneous action at a
EVI:Deduced:classical mechanics. This theorem can also be deduced readily from the
REL:Steam:Being
CON:Want
CON:Directed
EVI:Measurement:_A priori_ it is by no means certain that this last measurement will
SEQ:Transformation:Only
SEQ:Motion:Manifested
SEQ:Natural:Purely
EVI:Information:Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™
EVI:Fields:In gravitational fields there are no such things as rigid bodies with
SEQ:Agree:Abide
EVI:These:with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
EVI:Then:if he does not wish to be laid out full length on the floor. He is then
EVI:Time:particular time; unless we are told the reference-body to which the
SEQ:Each:Other
EVI:Known:As is well known, the fundamental law of the mechanics of
SEQ:Only:Beauty
EVI:Manager:from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
SEQ:Where:Beginning
EVI:Detail:treated in detail and with unsurpassable lucidity by Helmholtz and
EVI:Makes:other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
CON:Parallel
SEQ:Require:Velocity
SEQ:Difficulties:Consider
EVI:Profits:• You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
SEQ:Stretch:Rope
SEQ:Have:Obtained
SEQ:Also:Gravitational
SEQ:Shall:Leave
CON:Perihelion
EVI:Diminishes:attraction between two masses diminishes more rapidly than would result
SEQ:Passes:Distance
EVI:Result:supply us with the same result as the first. Thus the length of the
CON:Basgen
EVI:General:royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
EVI:Relativity:relativity. According to the special theory of relativity, the
EVI:Considered:with respect to the “Galileian space” first considered, we can
REL:More:More
SEQ:Point:Enlightened
SEQ:Towards:Latter
SEQ:Matter:When
SEQ:Things:Most
EVI:State:state of motion is such that the law of inertia holds relative to it is
EVI:Body:reference-body) the laws of nature were to be as simple as possible.
EVI:Judged:two points _A′_ and _B′_ at a particular time t—judged from the
EVI:Expressed:Gaussian co-ordinates, every such statement is expressed by the
EVI:Conception:are able to see the manner in which a refinement of the conception of
EVI:Should:outwards from this centre the group-density of the stars should
EVI:Curves:by means of a number. The Curves _u_ = 1, _u_ = 2 and _u_ = 3 are drawn
SEQ:Principles:Without
EVI:Accelerated:seen from a reference-body _K′_ which is accelerated relatively to _K_.
EVI:Plane:orbital plane, viz. between the circle of least and the circle of
EVI:Have:Then according to Gauss we have
EVI:Work:Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
REL:Correspond:More
SEQ:Still:Further
EVI:Squares:of the construction of squares in the previous section do not show
EVI:Conflict:But this result comes into conflict with the principle of relativity
EVI:Translational:translational motion relative to each other. Relative to other
EVI:Trademark:of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
EVI:Sensible:sitting eccentrically on the disc _K′_ is sensible of a force which
SEQ:Exactly:Shall
EVI:Equation:of its independence. This is shown by the fourth equation of the
SEQ:Although:Carriage
EVI:Arises:arises as to which of these two theorems is the better in accord with
EVI:Then:as for instance by a powerful application of the brakes, then the
EVI:System:system _K′_ is a Galileian one, when, in relation to _K_, it is in a
EVI:Velocity:direction of the velocity of the carriage would necessarily play a
EVI:Effect:bodies which are at rest relative to the disc, he regards as the effect
EVI:Disclose:explanations. Let us proceed to disclose these sins.
SEQ:Laws:General
REL:Also:Freely
EVI:While:while the original “static” hypothesis of space yielded the closure
CON:Regulating
EVI:Accordance:accordance with the discussion contained in the preceding section, it
EVI:Support:that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
EVI:Accelerated:Galilei) is executing an accelerated and in general curvilinear motion
SEQ:Expressed:Thus
EVI:Infinite:distance or of action at a distance with an infinite velocity of
EVI:Slightly:such a nature that numerical values differing very slightly from each
EVI:Reference:since the equations of such a theory hold for every body of reference,
EVI:Distance:distance without our proceeding being in the highest measure grossly
CON:Trustworthy
EVI:Cannot:the two events took place simultaneously or not.” I cannot be satisfied
EVI:Material:attracting material points is inversely proportional to the square of
EVI:Regard:electromagnetic phenomena, we have come to regard action at a distance
CON:Applying
EVI:Have:electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
SEQ:Evolution:Empirical
REL:Branch:Physics
CON:Inside
SEQ:Ordinates:Laws
SEQ:Just:Little
EVI:Lies:consideration lies in the recognition of the fact that _the universe of
EVI:Displaced:displaced radially outwards (away from the centre of the sun) by an
CON:Xxviii
EVI:Case:considerations only for the case, which is never strictly realised, in
EVI:Assumption:assumption, which, in the light of a strict consideration, appears to
EVI:Relative:motion of _K′_ against the æther (“æther-drift” relative to _K′_) were
SEQ:Detect:Existence
EVI:Remember:with the noble building of Euclid’s geometry, and you remember—perhaps
EVI:Rigid:space involves the use of a rigid body to which such events have to be
SEQ:Adams:Observations
SEQ:Careful:Consideration
EVI:Solution:We should thus have the solution of our problem, if the constants _a_
SEQ:Tenet:Thus
EVI:Nature:material and a psychological nature aroused by the war, these societies
REL:Piece:Wood
SEQ:Earth:Round
EVI:Place:words: Can we conceive of a relation between place and time of the
SEQ:Detailed:Discussion
EVI:Carriage:(retardation) of the carriage. But he is compelled by nobody to refer
SEQ:Must:Include
EVI:Place:life. If I analyse the place specification “Trafalgar Square,
EVI:Galileian:relative to every “Galileian” system of co-ordinates. In contrast to
EVI:Terms:the space-time coincidence of two events _A_ and _B_. In terms of
EVI:Acceleration:acceleration. If we develop the expression for the kinetic energy in
EVI:Time:III. Space and Time in Classical Mechanics
EVI:Distance:It is a different matter when the distance has to be judged from the
SEQ:Have:Clearly
SEQ:Point:Train
EVI:System:the velocity _c_, the propagation relative to the system _K′_ will be
EVI:Accepted:International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
EVI:Statement:relativity” the following statement: All bodies of reference _K, K′_,
SEQ:Measurements:Purpose
EVI:Rescued:Lorentz and FitzGerald rescued the theory from this difficulty by
EVI:Euclidean:also applicable to non-Euclidean continua, but only when, with respect
EVI:Points:which belongs to two adjacent points of the four-dimensional space-time
SEQ:Displaying:Creating
SEQ:Force:Observer
SEQ:Result:Analysis
EVI:Carriage:railway carriage would be a system _K_, relative to which less simple
EVI:Principle:carriage—a result contradictory to the principle of relativity.
EVI:Longer:indeed, they will no longer be able to demonstrate that they are on a
CON:Hence
EVI:Relativity:rays required by the general theory of relativity is only exceedingly
EVI:Such:together with the earth moves non-uniformly in such a manner that their
SEQ:Here:Impossible
EVI:Laws:proportional to it. Under these conditions, the natural laws satisfying
CON:Claimed
EVI:Imposed:additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
SEQ:Minkowski:Importance
EVI:Produces:produces in its surrounding a gravitational field, which acts on the
SEQ:Contrast:Electric
EVI:About:only says something about the motion of the bodies, but it also
SEQ:Axis:Separated
SEQ:View:Leads
EVI:Exactly:fields, we can study the law of motion of these particles very exactly.
SEQ:Pick:Stone
SEQ:Commercial:Redistribution
EVI:Point:point-event a “world-point.” From a “happening” in three-dimensional
SEQ:Physical:Nature
SEQ:Surprised:Even
EVI:Obviously:be generalised. Obviously it is immaterial whether the axes of _K′_ be
EVI:Each:of each other, on which electrodynamics was built.
SEQ:Licensed:Works
EVI:Laterally:can imagine this reference-body supplemented laterally and in a
EVI:General:physics which is conformable to the general principle of relativity,
EVI:Diminished:laws would hold than with respect to _K0_. This diminished simplicity
EVI:Understood:It is not clear what is to be understood here by “position” and
EVI:Same:the surface. These satisfy the same conditions as the _u_-curves, they
EVI:Theory:can be represented in the Maxwell-Lorentz theory only by the
EVI:Application:application of the measuring-rod along the embankment.
CON:Widest
SEQ:Compilation:Classified
CON:Added
EVI:Here:meant here by motion “in space”? From the considerations of the
EVI:Reaches:reaches the cloud has not been erected. By means of optical
EVI:Mechanics:According to Newtonian mechanics and Newton’s law of gravitation, a
SEQ:Rigid:Rods
EVI:Ordinate:for a suitably chosen co-ordinate system, the velocities of the stars
EVI:Principle:return later. If the principle of relativity (in the restricted sense)
EVI:Stars:effects produced on the light reaching us from the fixed stars. These
EVI:Respect:a disc which is at rest with respect to _K_, this operation would yield
CON:Expend
SEQ:Library:Electronic
EVI:Believes:believes he knows, that this propagation takes place in straight lines
EVI:Earth:æther-drift at the earth’s surface.
EVI:Basis:relativity,” which we have taken as the basis of our investigations.
EVI:Agreement:unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
EVI:Influence:with respect to time. Under the influence of this field, the embankment
SEQ:However:Traverses
EVI:Relatively:(“world”), even when only a relatively small part of their worldsphere
EVI:Such:We must experience many such surprises if the construction is to be
SEQ:Then:Sphere
EVI:Investigation:concerns the investigation of the laws satisfied by the gravitational
CON:Care
EVI:Rigid:geometry for rigid bodies.[20] The reader will notice that the
EVI:Continuum:require to extend our ideas of the space-time continuum still farther.
EVI:Positive:for the reference-body _K′_. A light-signal is sent along the positive
EVI:Moving:not hold with respect to the non-uniformly moving carriage. Because of
SEQ:Carriage:Hold
SEQ:Relativity:Geometrical
EVI:Many:considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
SEQ:Means:Same
EVI:Deflection:angle of deflection (α) should amount to
EVI:Help:Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
SEQ:Seen:Lorentz
EVI:Disc:sun that the stars situated near the sun’s disc are invisible. The
SEQ:Simpler:Physics
SEQ:Measurements:Means
CON:Production
EVI:Agreement:We have another instance of far-reaching agreement between the
SEQ:Owing:Smallness
CON:Remove
EVI:Behaviour:about the physical behaviour of measuring-rods and clocks from the
EVI:Mathematicians:[20] Mathematicians have been confronted with our problem in the
SEQ:Epitome:Space
SEQ:Ellipse:Round
EVI:Physics:Before the advent of relativity, physics recognised two conservation
EVI:More:general, in every gravitational field, a clock will go more quickly or
EVI:Each:arranged on a rigid body that the reflecting surfaces face each other.
SEQ:Such:Attempt
EVI:Field:In contrast to electric and magnetic fields, the gravitational field
EVI:Material:ourselves from the distasteful conception that the material universe
CON:Domain
EVI:Characterise:We can characterise the Lorentz transformation still more simply if we
EVI:Planet:such away, that the angle described by the radius sun-planet between
CON:Beautiful
SEQ:Practically:Plane
EVI:Axes:rectangular co-ordinate system by a new system with its axes pointing
CON:Have
EVI:Course:field which is constant with regard to time. Of course he will be
EVI:Also:According also to the general theory of relativity, which differs of
EVI:Julius:Naturwissenschaften_, 1919, No. 35, p. 520: Julius Springer, Berlin).
EVI:Reached:we require is reached by the completed rigid body.
SEQ:Argument:Moreover
EVI:Important:The most important result of a general character to which the special
EVI:Reference:with respect to a Galileian reference-body _K_ by the space co-ordinate
SEQ:Quickly:Does
EVI:Supplementary:IV. The Structure of Space According to the General Theory of Relativity (supplementary to section XXXII)
EVI:Position:the nature of our specification of position. If, for instance, a cloud
SEQ:Clocks:Conjunction
EVI:Using:of the country where you are located before using this eBook.
EVI:Point:It was at all times clear that, from the point of view of the idea it
REL:Beings:Finite
SEQ:Question:Might
EVI:Geometry:with the noble building of Euclid’s geometry, and you remember—perhaps
SEQ:Objects:Experience
EVI:Building:with the noble building of Euclid’s geometry, and you remember—perhaps
EVI:Electrons:In the theoretical treatment of these electrons, we are faced with the
SEQ:Volume:Bounds
EVI:Child:light is propagated in empty space. Every child at school knows, or
EVI:Relativity:line with the demands of the special theory of relativity. For the main
EVI:Systematic:From a systematic theoretical point of view, we may imagine the process
SEQ:Also:Individual
SEQ:Observer:Believes
SEQ:Velocity:Light
REL:Special:General
EVI:Lorentz:Minkowski found that the Lorentz transformations satisfy the following
SEQ:Whereas:Course
EVI:Inertia:state of motion is such that the law of inertia holds relative to it is
SEQ:Ground:Classical
EVI:Sacred:sins against the sacred spirit of lucidity were I to formulate the aims
EVI:Investigation:Astronomical Society for the investigation of this important deduction.
SEQ:Later:Result
SEQ:Clearly:Marked
SEQ:Consideration:Previous
SEQ:Complex:Empirical
SEQ:Person:Whose
SEQ:Detail:Standpoint
SEQ:Condition:Amongst
SEQ:Difficulty:Right
EVI:Theory:I further want to remark that the theory of expanding space, together
SEQ:Gutenberg:Registered
SEQ:Position:Time
SEQ:Also:Satisfied
SEQ:Present:Have
EVI:Events:and independently of the positions of the scenes of the events with
SEQ:Disc:Motion
EVI:Proximity:(from perihelion—closest proximity to the sun—to perihelion) would
SEQ:Choose:Respective
SEQ:Same:Event
SEQ:Great:Charm
SEQ:Relativity:Include
EVI:Fill:but in the course of time it would fill up an annular part of the
SEQ:General:Relativity
EVI:Testing:testing-rod. To this square we add similar ones, each of which has one
EVI:Other:continually interfere with each other, owing to the impenetrability of
EVI:Section:general postulate of relativity (Section XXIII).
EVI:Analysis:result of an analysis of the physical conceptions of time and space, it
CON:Russian
SEQ:Itself:Needs
CON:Furnish
EVI:Continues:thus: A body removed sufficiently far from other bodies continues in a
SEQ:Theories:Differ
CON:Copies
EVI:Construction:purpose we suppose that clocks of identical construction are placed at
SEQ:Number:Ticks
EVI:Replaced:and replaced by another which does not assume the validity of Euclidean
SEQ:Ordinate:Imaginary
SEQ:Confirmation:Theory
EVI:Hundreds:exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
EVI:Equal:equal right and equal success in the formulation of the general laws of
CON:Before
CON:Executing
CON:Explanations
REL:Resulted:Physicists
EVI:Mach:invalidate it, but without success. But E. Mach recognised it most
SEQ:Newton:Objection
SEQ:System:Absolutely
EVI:Area:increasing values of the radius. During this process the area of the
EVI:Planet:given the amount by which the radius sun-planet exceeds this angle
EVI:Electron:constituting the electron remain unchanged during the motion of the
SEQ:Curves:Must
SEQ:Special:Hypothesis
EVI:Locations:with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
EVI:These:are conceivable. From amongst these, the spherical space (and the
SEQ:Physicists:Whether
EVI:These:estimated difference between these two times is exceedingly small,
EVI:Satisfy:the surface. These satisfy the same conditions as the _u_-curves, they
EVI:Those:chosen so that they are spatially parallel to those of _K_. It is also
EVI:Line:circle, _i.e._ a self-contained line of definite finite length, which
EVI:Disc:from the position of the clock on the rotating disc to the centre of
SEQ:Gauss:Treatment
EVI:Direction:placed perpendicular to this direction.
EVI:Ever:without ever again coming into interaction with other objects of
EVI:Above:that above with the marble slab), we should find that different laws
SEQ:Values:Event
EVI:Each:These _u_-curves must not intersect each other, and through each point
EVI:Question:a question of detecting or of describing the motion involved, it is in
EVI:Short:standard measuring-rod (a rod which is short as compared with the
EVI:Transformation:Galilei transformation (Section XI). In place of the man walking inside
EVI:Obtainable:field must be satisfied for all gravitational fields obtainable in this
EVI:Magnitude:magnitude _ds_ the “distance” apart of the two events or
EVI:Follows:Euclidean. It follows directly from this discussion, that for our
EVI:During:the neighbourhood of the sun are photographed during a solar eclipse.
EVI:Translation:condition of uniform motion of translation. Relative to _K′_ the
EVI:Validity:reference-bodies. The validity of the principle of relativity was
EVI:Above:sent along the embankment, we see from the above that the tip of the
SEQ:Occurred:Simultaneously
CON:Behaviour
EVI:Confronted:essence of the difficulty with which we were confronted in Section
EVI:Light:are small compared with the velocity of light, we then obtain as a
SEQ:Where:Inertial
EVI:Numbers:these two numbers the co-ordinates of the surface of the table
EVI:Found:was found (Leverrier: 1859; and Newcomb: 1895) that an unexplained
EVI:Universe:If we are to have in the universe an average density of matter which
REL:Able:Show
EVI:Gutenberg:Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
EVI:Constructions:statement, because they mean that they can perform the constructions of
EVI:Where:same laws, even in the case where the prevailing gravitational field is
EVI:Reality:we have just written down does not hold in reality. For the time being,
SEQ:Field:Points
EVI:Mathematical:material points with reference to _K′_ simply by mathematical
SEQ:Perplexing:Physicists
SEQ:Jerk:Real
CON:Amongst
SEQ:Them:Increase
EVI:Moving:As judged from _K_, the clock is moving with the velocity _v_; as
EVI:Relativity:XXII. A Few Inferences from the General Principle of Relativity
REL:Ellipse:Such
CON:References
SEQ:Regard:Galileian
SEQ:Rope:Suspended
EVI:Curved:curved universe possessing central symmetry.
EVI:Different:which is everywhere the same and different from zero.
EVI:Rules:royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
CON:Spite
EVI:Proceed:We now proceed to the second argument, to which, moreover, we shall
EVI:When:relation to the train, when we know the place and time of the event
REL:Reference:Galileian
EVI:Field:field will of course depend on the motion chosen for _K′._ According to
SEQ:Four:These
EVI:Nothing:This equation expresses nothing else than the law of motion of the
EVI:Uncertainty:of arc per century. The uncertainty of the empirical result amounts to
SEQ:Necessarily:Thus
EVI:These:Both these hypotheses proved to be consistent, according to the general
EVI:Motion:shortening in the direction of the motion. On the other hand, the
EVI:Condition:and similarly for the accented system _K′_, then the condition which is
EVI:Each:his own reference-body occupied by the stone at each tick of the clock
EVI:Body:refer such a domain to a reference-body _K′_ possessing any kind of
EVI:Point:point, we thus have a (uni-dimensional) line in the four-dimensional
EVI:Each:resolves itself into a number of statements, each of which refers to
EVI:Should:should retain the principle of relativity, which appeals so
EVI:Arbitrary:a system of arbitrary curves (see Fig. 4) drawn on the surface of the
EVI:Systems:On the other hand, all coordinate systems _K′_ moving relatively to _K_
EVI:Time:accelerated motion. In course of time their velocity will reach
EVI:Important:It is true that this important law had hitherto been recorded in
SEQ:System:Accordance
EVI:Then:throwing it. Then, disregarding the influence of the air resistance, I
EVI:Each:within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
EVI:Made:light. There is only _one_ demand to be made of the definition of
EVI:Access:immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
EVI:Strokes:strokes of the clock is not one second, but
EVI:Here:situation depicted here corresponds to the one brought about by the
SEQ:Square:Constructed
SEQ:Plane:Surfaces
REL:Appertaining:Them
SEQ:Gives:Whole
EVI:Fields:also influenced by gravitational fields, and in such a way that a
SEQ:Average:Mass
SEQ:Carried:Means
EVI:Self:self-evident). Our principle rather asserts what follows: If we
EVI:Occurred:whether or not both the lightning strokes occurred simultaneously. As
EVI:Continuum:way. With every point of the continuum, we associate arbitrarily four
EVI:Geometry:another direction. The development of non-Euclidean geometry led to the
SEQ:Problem:Exactly
SEQ:Least:Depend
SEQ:Always:Strike
EVI:Copies:providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
CON:Thinkable
EVI:Magnitudes:magnitudes always fulfill the condition.[21]
EVI:Person:written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
EVI:Second:to a second co-ordinate system _K′_ provided that the latter is
EVI:Light:itself in a slight displacement of the spectral lines of the light
SEQ:Line:Shift
EVI:Parts:to the defined “size” or “distance,” small parts of the continuum under
EVI:Return:License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
REL:Several:Britain
CON:Pipe
SEQ:Clock:When
SEQ:Full:Terms
SEQ:Such:Anisotropic
SEQ:Imagine:Spherical
EVI:Contained:contained in electrodynamics as a limiting case; the laws of the latter
EVI:Others:you share it without charge with others.
EVI:Plane:hold for these from those resulting on the basis of Euclidean plane
SEQ:Corresponding:Delicacy
SEQ:Trademark:Only
SEQ:Time:Virtue
SEQ:Temperature:When
SEQ:Regularly:Distance
EVI:Definition:light. There is only _one_ demand to be made of the definition of
EVI:Finite:two-dimensional spherical surface. It is finite (_i.e._ of finite
EVI:Become:[5] A refinement and modification of these views does not become
SEQ:World:Even
EVI:Does:uniform motion. At all events it is clear that the Galileian law does
EVI:Time:the Maxwell-Lorentz theory, which are at the same time arguments in
CON:Complying
SEQ:Furthermore:Magnitudes
EVI:Fields:generally for gravitational fields. Furthermore, we can regard an atom
SEQ:Then:However
EVI:United:law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
REL:Respect:Lorentz
EVI:Specially:K′_ is unique (lit. “specially marked out”) as compared with the other.
EVI:Translation:uniformly. We call its motion a uniform translation (“uniform” because
SEQ:Following:Question
SEQ:Older:Mechanics
CON:Deduced
CON:Fair
SEQ:Fitted:Frame
EVI:Bodies:formulation. The form there used, “All bodies of reference _K, K′_,
EVI:Inversely:attracting material points is inversely proportional to the square of
EVI:Special:and in the special theory of relativity we therefore differentiate
SEQ:Almost:Restrictions
CON:Protected
EVI:Other:shortening in the direction of the motion. On the other hand, the
SEQ:Relativity:Grown
EVI:Example:two theories differ from each other. As an example, a case of general
SEQ:Until:Fully
EVI:According:According to the general theory of relativity, the geometrical
SEQ:Taken:Account
EVI:Flash:flash _A_. We thus arrive at the important result:
EVI:Clearly:clearly of all, and because of this objection he claimed that mechanics
SEQ:Able:Construct
SEQ:Does:Wish
REL:Mode:Grasping
SEQ:Unable:Give
SEQ:Less:Inquire
CON:Belong
SEQ:Relativity:Differs
CON:Pans
SEQ:Atmosphere:Strongly
SEQ:Assumed:Relative
SEQ:Financial:Support
SEQ:Exact:Objects
EVI:Galileian:that the Galileian law holds with respect to it: A particle left to
SEQ:Hart:Originator
SEQ:Problem:Greatest
EVI:Literary:Literary Archive Foundation
CON:Rate
EVI:Measuring:measuring-rods, are free to move in a _plane_. For them nothing exists
EVI:About:satisfactory manner by making a more subtle stipulation about the
SEQ:Prime:Importance
EVI:Discussed:discussed in the preceding section), the man in the chest will thus
EVI:Shift:showed a red shift which increased regularly with the distance of the
CON:Particular
EVI:Principle:principle of the physical relativity of all _uniform_ motion. Let as
SEQ:Until:Finally
SEQ:Increase:Accuracy
EVI:Train:particular point of the train. Also the definition of simultaneity can
EVI:About:Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™
EVI:Then:we must then express _x′_ and _t′_ in terms of _x_ and _t_, making use
EVI:Result:which agrees with Fizeau’s result.
EVI:Justifiably:velocity of light _c_ (in vacuum) is justifiably believed by the child
EVI:Relative:motion, then relative to _K′_ there exists a gravitational field which
EVI:Objective:the time, which led us to our objective in the special theory of
EVI:Mass:its inertial mass, and thus according to Section XV only its energy is
SEQ:Free:Ends
EVI:Number:number of these operations required is the numerical measure of the
EVI:Lorentz:The Galilei transformation can be obtained from the Lorentz
SEQ:More:Until
CON:Definite
SEQ:Hastening:Towards
EVI:Gauss:is clear that Gauss co-ordinates are nothing more than an association
EVI:Able:and “straight line,” with which we are able to associate more or less
EVI:Rods:surface by means of a square made up of measuring-rods. If the universe
SEQ:Determine:Constants
EVI:Developed:of relativity, of which the fundamental ideas are developed in the
EVI:Royalties:agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
EVI:Doubt:recognition of the fact, that we can cast doubt on the _infiniteness_
EVI:Between:the distance between the points being
SEQ:Calculation:Shows
SEQ:Line:Relative
EVI:Here:appreciate with sufficient clearness what I mean here by “neighbouring”
SEQ:Construction:Extended
EVI:Distributing:of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
REL:Curvilinearly:Gravitational
SEQ:Being:Immaterial
SEQ:Understand:Spite
SEQ:Respect:Than
EVI:Solar:confirmed during the solar eclipse of 29th May, 1919. (Cf. Appendix
EVI:Difficulty:difficulty that electrodynamic theory of itself is unable to give an
EVI:Motion:(_a_) The carriage is in motion relative to the embankment,
SEQ:Displaced:Outwards
EVI:Puts:relativity puts us in a position to derive properties of the
EVI:Respects:IN WHAT RESPECTS ARE THE FOUNDATIONS OF CLASSICAL MECHANICS AND OF THE
REL:Able:Apply
SEQ:Getting:Greatest
REL:Circle:Immense
EVI:Postulate:postulate of relativity.
CON:Alterations
SEQ:Footpath:Other
EVI:Universe:ourselves from the distasteful conception that the material universe
SEQ:Providing:Access
EVI:Cannot:we cannot pursue this course. The epoch-making theoretical
EVI:Repeated:half a century ago, and which has been repeated since then by some of
SEQ:Copy:Distribute
EVI:Appear:the following way. As seen from the earth, certain fixed stars appear
CON:Shortness
EVI:Binary:1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
EVI:Only:it has long been known that the last question is not only unanswerable
EVI:Project:1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
EVI:Fundamental:Let me add a final remark of a fundamental nature. The success of the
EVI:Really:the Gauss co-ordinate system is the (really unjustified) formal
REL:Kind:Curved
EVI:State:limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
EVI:Whereas:Poincaré, whereas I can only touch on them briefly here.
SEQ:Travelling:Uniformly
EVI:Schooldays:In your schooldays most of you who read this book made acquaintance
CON:Adhered
EVI:Case:present case we can divide the problem into parts by considering first
SEQ:Means:Observer
SEQ:Different:More
SEQ:Seems:More
SEQ:Forth:Paragraphs
EVI:Just:observations, and it is just here that the “truth” of the theory lies.
EVI:Centre:centre of the disc, has a velocity relative to _K_ which is given by
EVI:Ordinates:the Gaussian co-ordinates _u_ = 3, _v_ = 1. Two neighbouring points _P_
EVI:Than:times greater than for the Sun. R.W.L.—translator
SEQ:Motion:Fixed
SEQ:Mark:Distance
SEQ:Means:Gravitationial
SEQ:Small:Extent
EVI:Usual:ground?” The usual answer to this question is: “Because it is attracted
EVI:Gauss:the Gauss co-ordinate system is the (really unjustified) formal
SEQ:Matter:Distributed
EVI:Influences:we are able to disregard the influences of gravitational fields on the
SEQ:Intelligible:Than
EVI:Doubted:hardly be doubted from a theoretical point of view), leads to an origin
SEQ:Positions:Every
EVI:Retarded:forwards. The retarded motion is manifested in the mechanical behaviour
EVI:Associated:used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
CON:Manifest
EVI:Survive:Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread
SEQ:Continuum:Called
EVI:Work:1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
EVI:Things:will interpret the condition of things thus: “The rope must perforce
EVI:Refer:experience. We refer to the yearly movement of the apparent position of
EVI:Greatest:conscientiously thoughtful physicist into the greatest intellectual
SEQ:Rates:Dependent
REL:Comparison:Lengths
SEQ:Place:Time
CON:Purely
EVI:Located:of the country where you are located before using this eBook.
EVI:Rather:rather admit that his mode of grasping the situation violates neither
EVI:Implied:1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
EVI:Ordinates:stars do not move in a circle. A system of co-ordinates of which the
SEQ:Then:Mean
EVI:Relativity:space-time continuum of the theory of relativity, in its most essential
EVI:Permanently:carriage) remains permanently at rest. With reference to it, however,
SEQ:Direction:Axis
EVI:Nearly:easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
SEQ:Left:Hand
EVI:Compass:induction. Theories are evolved and are expressed in short compass as
EVI:Velocity:the embankment with the velocity _v_, and inquire as to their distance
SEQ:Universe:Experience
EVI:Development:theory of the development of species by selection in the struggle for
EVI:Refund:lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
CON:Metre
SEQ:System:Shall
SEQ:Latter:Statement
SEQ:Realised:Least
EVI:Theoretical:we cannot pursue this course. The epoch-making theoretical
SEQ:Arguments:Favour
EVI:Gravitation:accelerated body. If now gravitation is the cause of the acceleration,
EVI:United:are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws
SEQ:Time:Fairer
EVI:Exists:(1) There exists an average density of matter in the whole of space
SEQ:Return:Destroy
CON:Swamp
EVI:Quite:this is quite in accordance with the principle of relativity which
EVI:Ones:each other. Here the Gaussian coordinates are simply Cartesian ones. It
EVI:Arbitrary:continuum in a definite but arbitrary manner. This arrangement does not
EVI:Change:in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
EVI:Time:definitions for the signification of time- and space-data with
CON:Continua
EVI:Field:Now we might easily suppose that the existence of a gravitational field
EVI:Point:object in space is based on the specification of the point on a rigid
SEQ:Walks:Life
EVI:Ought:and if Newton’s theory be strictly correct, we ought to obtain for the
EVI:Theory:enable us to answer this question. But the general theory of relativity
EVI:World:MINKOWSKI’S FOUR-DIMENSIONAL SPACE (“WORLD”)
EVI:Ourselves:measures to make ourselves independent of the existence of marked
EVI:Them:them, the nature of which has hitherto remained obscure to us.[13] If
REL:Developed:Section
CON:Isolated
EVI:Identical:position, of the pointers of the other clock, then identical “settings”
EVI:Time:clock per unit time (“rate” of the clock) relative to _K_ when the
EVI:Gauss:description. The Gauss co-ordinate system has to take the place of the
EVI:Conditions:proportional to it. Under these conditions, the natural laws satisfying
EVI:Newton:systems _K_ and _K′_.[15] Newton saw this objection and attempted to
SEQ:Reference:Event
EVI:Notice:the part of the continuum under our notice.
SEQ:Orbit:Round
CON:Propagated
EVI:Individual:individual events relative to both reference-bodies, such that every
EVI:Standard:standard measuring-rod (a rod which is short as compared with the
EVI:Kind:rope attached, and now a “being” (what kind of a being is immaterial to
SEQ:Gravitation:Since
EVI:Gravitational:field must be satisfied for all gravitational fields obtainable in this
SEQ:Have:Imagine
EVI:Them:numbers to them, in such a manner, that we simply have:
SEQ:Space:Independent
EVI:Matter:(_c_) Gravitational field and matter together must satisfy the law of
SEQ:Heavenly:Bodies
EVI:Deal:here we shall have to deal in detail later.
EVI:Mercury:attainable at the present time. The sole exception is Mercury, the
EVI:Amount:given the amount by which the radius sun-planet exceeds this angle
CON:Goal
EVI:Then:to unity. We then have the following law: The _gravitational_ mass of a
EVI:Space:the iron through the intermediate empty space, but we are constrained
SEQ:Then:Condition
EVI:Body:with respect to a Galileian reference-body _K_ by the space co-ordinate
SEQ:Similarly:Imagine
EVI:Large:We imagine a large portion of empty space, so far removed from stars
EVI:Given:reference-bodies (or their states of motion) are given priority over
SEQ:Either:Range
EVI:Removed:removed from the body are thence determined by the law which governs
EVI:Next:one perhelion and the next should exceed that corresponding to one
EVI:Between:But between the clear vision of this goal and its actual realisation it
SEQ:Shows:Able
EVI:Make:enough to make themselves perceptible as a change in the inertial mass
SEQ:When:Motion
EVI:Specification:specification of the position of the foot of the pole, supplies us with
SEQ:Seen:Earth
EVI:Case:which case two of our little rods can still be brought into coincidence
EVI:Relativity:principle of the physical relativity of all _uniform_ motion. Let as
EVI:Infinite:island in the infinite ocean of space.[24]
SEQ:Ordinates:Generally
EVI:Attractive:gravitational field is absent. But the most attractive problem, to the
REL:Question:Such
SEQ:Means:Results
EVI:Planets:correct the observed motion of the planets for these two influences,
SEQ:Provide:Replacement
SEQ:Applicable:Agreement
EVI:Standpoint:shows that also from the standpoint of the theory of relativity this
EVI:Line:Then every event which takes place along the line also takes place at a
SEQ:Universe:Should
EVI:Space:are conceivable. From amongst these, the spherical space (and the
SEQ:Effect:Almost
SEQ:Refer:Yearly
EVI:Space:three-dimensional continuum of Euclidean geometrical space.[14] In
EVI:Material:likewise the behaviour of “isolated” material points; the latter move
REL:Eddington:Others
SEQ:Motion:Events
EVI:Immediate:active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
EVI:Preference:preference in this sense, and they should be exactly equivalent to _K_
CON:Hundreds
EVI:Following:We thus obtain the following result: Every description of events in
EVI:Dimensions:belongs to a Euclidean continuum of three dimensions. If we imagine
EVI:Assumptions:in vacuo, which constitutes one of the two fundamental assumptions in
SEQ:Fourth:Square
EVI:Continued:velocity _v_ to be continued across the whole of space, so that every
EVI:Rigid:“rigid” bodies. In this sense we _can_ imagine a spherical space.
EVI:Whether:in which we live is infinite, or whether it is finite in the manner of
EVI:Reference:which takes place anywhere can be localised with reference to this
EVI:Short:to _K′_. In short, we can designate _v_ as the relative velocity of the
SEQ:Plane:Orbit
EVI:Long:long. To ensure the equality of the diagonals, we make use of a little
SEQ:Extent:Regards
EVI:Axioms:propositions is thus reduced to one of the “truth” of the axioms. Now
EVI:Performs:The observer performs experiments on his circular disc with clocks and
SEQ:Manner:Simultaneous
SEQ:Carriage:System
SEQ:Those:Also
EVI:Other:work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.
SEQ:Acceleration:Develop
CON:Goals
SEQ:Develops:System
CON:Carry
SEQ:Point:Rigid
EVI:Jerk:this jerk to a “real” acceleration (retardation) of the carriage. He
EVI:Found:require to obtain a generalisation of the law as found above. This can
EVI:Clearly:predicted effect can be seen clearly from the accompanying diagram. If
EVI:Bodies:equivalence of _all_ bodies of reference _K_ in connection with the
SEQ:Things:Dare
EVI:Involves:to (3), the disappearance of (_x_ – _ct_) involves the disappearance of
SEQ:Physical:Relativity
EVI:Three:co-ordinates we speak of it as being “three-dimensional.”
SEQ:Matter:Itself
SEQ:Does:Supply
EVI:Disc:The observer performs experiments on his circular disc with clocks and
EVI:Clear:It was at all times clear that, from the point of view of the idea it
SEQ:Teaches:Judged
EVI:Radius:general neither the mass _M_ nor the radius _r_ are known.
SEQ:User:Return
EVI:Points:points on this surface which are distinguishable from each other. But
SEQ:Ideas:Developed
EVI:Possibility:We must note carefully that the possibility of this mode of
EVI:Relative:here replaced by the velocity of light relative to the embankment. _w_
EVI:Prepare:within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
SEQ:Distance:Cannot
EVI:Movement:known that a gravitational field influences the movement of bodies in
CON:Differently
EVI:According:according to the first of the equations (5)
EVI:Dimensional:dimensional space) of equal length in all directions. They will call
SEQ:Real:Quantity
SEQ:Pole:Measured
EVI:Special:the time, which led us to our objective in the special theory of
SEQ:Formulated:Reference
EVI:Orbital:of gravity, lies in one of the foci of the orbital ellipse in such a
EVI:Body:The frequency of an atom situated on the surface of a heavenly body
REL:Derivation:Laws
REL:Velocity:Light
CON:Deductions
SEQ:Have:Also
SEQ:Case:Where
SEQ:Alteration:Velocity
EVI:Varies:the inertial mass of a body is not a constant but varies according to
EVI:Clocks:means of measuring-rods and clocks. If we had based our considerations
EVI:Spite:It is not difficult to understand why, in spite of this, we feel
SEQ:Moreover:According
EVI:Data:fact that no empirical data had been found which were contradictory to
SEQ:Analogous:Those
EVI:Fields:infinitely large gravitational fields being produced. We thus free
EVI:Electrodynamic:difficulty that electrodynamic theory of itself is unable to give an
SEQ:Thinkable:Answer
EVI:Section:discussed in the preceding section), the man in the chest will thus
EVI:Some:An elliptical universe can thus be considered to some extent as a
EVI:Marble:here we have the general case, corresponding to the marble slab with
SEQ:Measurements:Zeeman
CON:Concerning
EVI:Between:between the principle of relativity and the law of propagation of
CON:Passing
REL:Motion:Manifested
SEQ:Believe:Natural
CON:Maintained
EVI:Time:Hypothesis (2) appeared unavoidable to me at the time, since I thought
EVI:Namely:described by four numbers, namely, three space co-ordinates _x, y, z_,
EVI:Square:body to which the specification of place refers; “Trafalgar Square,
EVI:Planet:Thus if the spherical surface beings are living on a planet of which
CON:Appearance
EVI:Proceed:explanations. Let us proceed to disclose these sins.
EVI:Walking:man walking along the carriage, or of the moving point in the present
EVI:Chest:chest would not be able to interpret the behaviour of the bodies around
EVI:Same:same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
EVI:Process:process a (large) number of times, or, in other words, by going from
SEQ:Present:Knowledge
EVI:Trademark:trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.
EVI:Other:Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
SEQ:Opposed:Time
SEQ:Treatment:These
SEQ:Really:Unjustified
EVI:Present:co-ordinates when a gravitational field is present. In connection with
CON:Combined
SEQ:Direction:Observed
EVI:Difficult:almost an exact circle, which makes it more difficult to locate the
CON:Series
EVI:Pass:equations which express the general laws of nature pass over into
CON:Prejudices
SEQ:System:Connection
EVI:Process:process; for it slurs over the important part played by intuition and
SEQ:Embankment:Each
SEQ:Visit:Gutenberg
EVI:Project:Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
EVI:Theoretical:From a systematic theoretical point of view, we may imagine the process
SEQ:Event:Position
EVI:Clear:It is clear from our previous considerations that the (special) theory
CON:Appeared
SEQ:Works:Freely
CON:Substances
SEQ:Ideas:Inclined
SEQ:Stipulation:Contains
SEQ:Mean:Assign
SEQ:Derivable:Such
EVI:Works:Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
CON:Signify
EVI:Proceeding:field. Before proceeding farther, however, I must warn the reader
EVI:Hope:in this way, yet we may entertain the hope that the general law of
EVI:Rails:very long train travelling along the rails with the constant velocity v
SEQ:Hand:Have
EVI:Time:We see from (12) that the imaginary time co-ordinate _x_4, enters into
EVI:Means:rigid rods, but by indirect means. If the results of physics and
REL:Standard:Education
CON:Permanently
EVI:Point:possible to describe the position of a point (at rest) by means of
EVI:Force:an effect of inertia (centrifugal force) by an observer who was at rest
EVI:Precision:has been confirmed for all the planets save one, with the precision
SEQ:Above:Consideration
EVI:Thus:identically satisfied by the transformation can be expressed thus:
EVI:Foundation:Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
EVI:Considered:conveys to us, every motion must be considered only as a relative
EVI:Falls:misdeed from the footpath notices that the stone falls to earth in a
EVI:Analytical:According to Gauss, this combined analytical and geometrical mode of
EVI:Points:points _A_ and _B_ of the embankment which are just being passed by the
SEQ:Time:Atmosphere
EVI:Some:some one were to ask you: “What, then, do you mean by the assertion
CON:Trafalgar
EVI:Sections:Sections XX and XXIII).
EVI:Line:along the rails, the connecting line _AB_ should be measured up and an
SEQ:Space:Data
REL:Statement:Time
EVI:Large:statements of a large number of individual observations in the form of
SEQ:Widest:Variety
SEQ:Certainty:Leave
REL:Simple:Apparently
CON:Credit
EVI:Return:the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
EVI:Need:even need to be of such a kind that we must regard _x_1, _x_2, _x_3, as
EVI:Under:(_b_) If there is any matter in the domain under consideration, only
CON:Sitting
SEQ:Presentation:Adhered
CON:Assume
SEQ:Enter:Laws
SEQ:Ought:Finite
EVI:Orbital:orbital plane, viz. between the circle of least and the circle of
CON:Method
EVI:Treated:treated in the second part of this book.
SEQ:Gone:Smoothly
EVI:Should:clearness, it appeared to me inevitable that I should repeat myself
SEQ:Existence:Without
SEQ:Colours:During
SEQ:Above:Sense
EVI:Positions:that they are set in such a manner that the positions of their pointers
EVI:Forwards:forwards. The retarded motion is manifested in the mechanical behaviour
EVI:Lengths:With reference to our little rods—defined as unit lengths—the marble
EVI:Gutenberg:performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
SEQ:Rate:Permanently
SEQ:Does:Arise
EVI:Finally:circle continues to increase more and more, until finally it becomes
EVI:Number:their universe there is room for an infinite number of identical
EVI:Without:of reference, without suffering from the defects of the latter mode of
EVI:Means:we only require to take a “snapshot” of _K′_ from _K_; this means that
EVI:Rods:their measuring-rods and other objects fit exactly on this surface and
EVI:Course:explanation; of course it would require some consideration if I were to
EVI:Reality:lie “in reality” on a straight line or on a parabola? Moreover, what is
EVI:Number:methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
EVI:Bodies:assumed only for these reference-bodies, but not for others (_e.g._
EVI:Inertial:its inertial mass, and thus according to Section XV only its energy is
SEQ:London:Well
SEQ:Events:Respect
SEQ:Events:Many
CON:Remain
EVI:Relativity:theory of relativity, but only after a hypothetical term was added to
EVI:Bodies:known that a gravitational field influences the movement of bodies in
EVI:Accordance:question should take place—as judged from _K′_—in accordance with the
EVI:Gutenberg:version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
EVI:Section:Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™
SEQ:Axis:Respect
EVI:Construction:construction, and which are considered at rest with respect to the
CON:Relatively
SEQ:Provided:Viewing
EVI:Transcription:or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
CON:Composed
EVI:Particular:In particular, the constructions of plane Euclidean geometry can be
REL:Brought:Light
EVI:Circumference:If, then, the observer first measures the circumference of the disc
EVI:Great:diminish, until finally, at great distances, it is succeeded by an
SEQ:Conjunction:Observation
SEQ:When:State
EVI:Infringement:intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
CON:Search
EVI:Another:velocity _c_, then for this reason it would appear that another law of
EVI:Rather:based, in no way opposes the theory of relativity. Rather has the
EVI:Whilst:whilst the other does not, then I shall remain astonished and
EVI:Theory:the general theory of relativity, the general law of the gravitational
EVI:Clocks:alterations in form _ad lib._ during their motion. Clocks, for which
EVI:Electron:electron (rigid connection in the sense of classical mechanics), we
SEQ:Must:Wait
EVI:Continuum:XXIV. Euclidean and non-Euclidean Continuum
EVI:Other:and the general theory of relativity on the other. This agreement goes
EVI:Spectral:the same spectral lines when they are produced by a terrestrial source
SEQ:Inaccuracy:Involved
SEQ:Without:Executing
EVI:Case:calculation is not possible in the case of the stars, because in
SEQ:Farther:Another
EVI:Carriage:carriage experiences a jerk forwards as a result of the application of
CON:Outside
SEQ:Imagine:Mirrors
SEQ:Geometry:Rigid
EVI:Respect:represented with respect to the co-ordinate system _K_ by the abscissa
SEQ:Difficulties:Only
EVI:Fields:the properties in space of the gravitational fields themselves.
SEQ:Have:Thus
EVI:Rods:individual rods always represent the same distance, independently of
SEQ:Equipped:Apparatus
EVI:Bodies:grounds for extending the principle of relativity to include bodies of
EVI:General:conviction that, according to the general principle of relativity, the
SEQ:Constructions:Plane
SEQ:Subject:Based
EVI:Solution:XXIX. The Solution of the Problem of Gravitation on the Basis of the General Principle of Relativity
CON:Carried
EVI:Comply:• You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
EVI:Masses:electrical masses of an electron are held together by gravitational
EVI:Respect:But since a gravitational field exists with respect to this new body of
EVI:Read:In your schooldays most of you who read this book made acquaintance
CON:Everyday
SEQ:World:Tour
CON:Permitted
EVI:Occupant:occupant of the carriage experiences a correspondingly powerful jerk
SEQ:Available:Generations
REL:Order:Have
CON:Interpreted
SEQ:Extent:Other
EVI:Most:things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
EVI:Satisfied:But no person whose mode of thought is logical can rest satisfied with
SEQ:Then:Identical
EVI:Obtain:transmitted along the negative _x_-axis, we obtain the condition
EVI:Galileian:as follows: The special theory of relativity has reference to Galileian
SEQ:Relative:Body
EVI:Satisfied:pair of events _A, C_ is also satisfied. This assumption is a physical
SEQ:Wanderer:Unable
SEQ:Constants:Place
EVI:Modify:principle of relativity, and the question arises: How have we to modify
EVI:Laws:attributed the more complicated laws which were supposed to hold
EVI:Curves:These _u_-curves must not intersect each other, and through each point
EVI:Minkowski:XVII. Minkowski’s Four-dimensional Space
EVI:Mechanical:in mechanics, which can be used in mechanical description. The visible
CON:Types
SEQ:Kilometres:Second
SEQ:Contrast:Ours
EVI:Indicates:indicates the reference-bodies or systems of coordinates, permissible
EVI:Newton:at the cost of a modification and complication of Newton’s law which
SEQ:Without:Being
SEQ:Shall:Void
CON:Stellar
EVI:Theoretical:more general theoretical principles as is the law of Newton.
EVI:Judged:point, they draw “straight lines” (arcs of circles as judged in three
EVI:Sitting:of the train. If an observer sitting in the position _M′_ in the train
CON:Impulse
EVI:Damage:other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
EVI:Travelling:comparable with a railway carriage travelling with a velocity of about
EVI:Gravitational:infinitely large gravitational fields being produced. We thus free
SEQ:Disturbing:Influences
SEQ:Specially:Favoured
EVI:Ordinates:of co-ordinates. We see this expressed in the last equation of the
EVI:Phenomenon:this phenomenon was given by H. A. Lorentz long before the statement of
EVI:Evident:self-evident). Our principle rather asserts what follows: If we
SEQ:Signification:Time
SEQ:Space:Without
SEQ:Most:Other
CON:Enables
EVI:Event:is associated with every event which is essentially capable of
EVI:Special:ideas of either the special or the general theory of relativity, I
EVI:Have:Up to now our considerations have been referred to a particular body of
EVI:Relative:For the relative orientation of the co-ordinate systems indicated in
EVI:Position:Every description of the scene of an event or of the position of an
CON:Impoverished
EVI:Observation:exactness corresponding to that of the delicacy of observation
SEQ:Rest:Uniform
EVI:Distance:an additional distance w relative to the carriage, and hence also
EVI:Such:contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
EVI:Make:variations from the laws of classical mechanics are too small to make
CON:Correctly
EVI:Cartesian:introduce into the latter a new Cartesian co-ordinate system (_x′_1,
SEQ:Variation:Temperature
EVI:Motion:Now in virtue of its motion in an orbit round the sun, our earth is
EVI:Time:such encounters constitute the only actual evidence of a time-space
EVI:Selection:theory of the development of species by selection in the struggle for
SEQ:Force:Order
EVI:Mean:from the inverse square law. In this way it is possible for the mean
EVI:Already:embankment) have already been defined in detail in the preceding
EVI:Relativity:more inclined to reject the principle of relativity, in spite of the
EVI:Sitting:whom we will imagine sitting alongside his clock at the centre of the
EVI:Direction:of light _in vacuo_ for rays of light of arbitrary direction, both for
EVI:Relativity:grounds for extending the principle of relativity to include bodies of
SEQ:Manner:Position
CON:Relationships
EVI:Involving:as instantaneous actions at a distance (not involving an intermediary
SEQ:Enters:Natural
SEQ:Equivalence:Different
SEQ:Relative:Liquid
SEQ:Definition:Used
SEQ:Being:Obtained
EVI:Obtained:rotation. According to a result obtained in Section XII, it follows
SEQ:Data:Must
SEQ:Here:Without
EVI:Terminate:of force” which come from infinity and terminate in a mass m is
EVI:Referred:Up to now our considerations have been referred to a particular body of
CON:Nearest
EVI:Concerning:any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
EVI:Signal:A light-signal, which is proceeding along the positive axis of _x_, is
EVI:Accessed:phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
SEQ:Fields:Absent
EVI:Mechanics:IN WHAT RESPECTS ARE THE FOUNDATIONS OF CLASSICAL MECHANICS AND OF THE
SEQ:Manner:Little
SEQ:Assume:Validity
EVI:Course:course much less. Let us inquire about the velocity of propagation of
SEQ:Position:Respect
EVI:Corresponds:an imaginary time coordinate); the Lorentz transformation corresponds
EVI:Translation:a state of uniform motion of translation relative to _K_, or, briefly,
SEQ:Considered:Euclidean
EVI:Alters:specify how the body alters its position _with time; i.e._ for every
EVI:Reference:with respect to the body of reference. A similar difficulty presents
SEQ:Certainly:Holds
CON:Pedestrian
EVI:Same:Since the same light-signal has to be transmitted relative to _K′_ with
EVI:Sufficient:contraction being just sufficient to compensate for the difference in
SEQ:Relativity:Valid
EVI:Decisive:which appears as though it must be decisive. Imagine two mirrors so
SEQ:Over:Body
SEQ:Continua:Only
EVI:Localised:which takes place anywhere can be localised with reference to this
EVI:Compliance:States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
EVI:Project:Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
SEQ:Axis:Simple
EVI:Thus:_continuum_. Thus it is that mathematicians long ago solved the formal
SEQ:Regard:Disc
EVI:Velocity:they start off from rest or with the same initial velocity. This law,
EVI:Clocks:point on the non-rigid reference-body. These clocks satisfy only the
CON:Profound
EVI:Thirty:on the dense companion of Sirius, for which the effect is about thirty
SEQ:Indicate:Matter
CON:Moves
EVI:More:I have chosen this as being more familiar to the English reader than
SEQ:Present:Star
EVI:Same:In addition, a second photograph of the same stars is taken when the
EVI:Section:Minkowski, which was only vaguely indicated in Section XVII. In
EVI:Approach:they approach each other, and finally they run together again at a
EVI:Obtained:outside the _x_-axis, is obtained by retaining equations (8) and
EVI:Equal:quadrilateral so that its diagonals may be equal. If they are equal of
EVI:Relation:of _x, y, x, t_, of such a kind that the relation
EVI:Literary:Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
REL:Field:Space
EVI:Mechanics:called a “Galileian system of co-ordinates.” The laws of the mechanics
EVI:Generalisation:require to obtain a generalisation of the law as found above. This can
EVI:Precision:been confirmed with great precision in recent years.
SEQ:Found:Rather
SEQ:Rays:Called
EVI:Require:require to obtain a generalisation of the law as found above. This can
EVI:Continuous:of evolution of an empirical science to be a continuous process of
EVI:Uniformly:with the observer then begin to move “upwards” with a uniformly
EVI:Dimensions:coordinates) as the continuum has dimensions. This is done in such a
EVI:Full:Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
EVI:Relativity:the validity of the results of the special theory of relativity
EVI:Obtained:results are obtained in an exceedingly simple manner, and the effects
CON:Handling
SEQ:Views:Does
CON:Inhabited
EVI:State:state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
SEQ:Atom:These
EVI:Respect:a “mollusc” as reference-body _K′_. Then with respect to _K′_ there is
EVI:Result:what way this result becomes modified in the general theory of
EVI:Continuum:the surface by describing the latter as a continuum.
EVI:Nature:valuable heuristic aid in the search for general laws of nature. If a
EVI:Does:_w_. How quickly or, in other words, with what velocity _W_ does the
EVI:Numbers:To every point of a continuum are assigned as many numbers (Gaussian
REL:Because:Reality
EVI:Area:equal to the total area of the whole “world-sphere.”
SEQ:Relative:Motions
REL:Number:Ticks
EVI:Mechanics:result of observation in astronomy, against which classical mechanics
CON:Stretch
SEQ:Whole:Actual
EVI:Friend:Let us suppose our old friend the railway carriage to be travelling
CON:Unheard
SEQ:Contrary:Considered
EVI:Rods:plane Euclidean geometry with their rods. In this connection the
EVI:Ticks:with respect to _K_. If _v_0, represents the number of ticks of the
EVI:Some:After some time perhaps the following answer would occur to you: “The
CON:Never
EVI:Point:z, t_, which determine an event or—in other words—a point of the
SEQ:Where:Signify
EVI:Person:with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
SEQ:Extends:Exclusively
SEQ:Supply:Same
SEQ:When:Velocity
EVI:Furthermore:co-ordinates are generally not available; furthermore, the magnitudes
CON:Second
SEQ:Analogy:Namely
EVI:Have:motion. Returning to the illustration we have frequently used of the
CON:Ultimately
SEQ:Also:Teaches
SEQ:First:Fourth
CON:Suggests
EVI:Easily:Now we might easily suppose that the existence of a gravitational field
CON:Biology
EVI:Carriage:railway-carriage window is holding one of them, and the man on the
EVI:Relative:translational motion relative to each other. Relative to other
SEQ:Same:Colours
EVI:Point:distance being measurable and well defined from a physical point of
SEQ:Across:Whole
EVI:Thus:might also interpret his experience thus: “My body of reference (the
SEQ:However:Already
SEQ:Seen:Either
SEQ:Points:Claim
SEQ:Describe:Bodies
SEQ:Motion:Have
EVI:Even:way. Even though by no means all gravitationial fields can be produced
SEQ:Heavenly:Body
SEQ:Archive:Einstein
EVI:Opposed:space co-ordinates as opposed to the time co-ordinate. Every point on
SEQ:Entity:Provided
EVI:Cause:last are undoubtedly the exclusive cause of the genesis of those ideas.
SEQ:Considered:Metre
SEQ:Rotation:Ordinate
SEQ:Dare:Withhold
EVI:Http:http://www.marxists.org/reference/archive/einstein/index.htm
EVI:Travelling:very long train travelling along the rails with the constant velocity v
EVI:Redistributing:Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™
SEQ:Material:Point
EVI:Reference:be termed a “reference-mollusc”, is in the main equivalent to a
EVI:Field:_G_ = gravitational field
EVI:Coming:without ever again coming into interaction with other objects of
EVI:Variables:transformation, we replace the space-time variables _x, y, z, t_, of a
EVI:Other:all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
SEQ:Based:Second
EVI:Other:z, t_, which determine an event or—in other words—a point of the
SEQ:Relativity:Always
EVI:Number:number of points in the neighbourhood of this one, the position of
SEQ:Scattered:Under
EVI:Only:assumed only for these reference-bodies, but not for others (_e.g._
EVI:Must:(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
REL:Unimportant:Pardonable
CON:Implies
CON:Assign
SEQ:Carriage:Obvious
EVI:Then:If everything has really gone smoothly, then I say that the points of
EVI:Railway:reference, which we have styled a “railway embankment.” We suppose a
EVI:Previous:here apply the consideration of the previous section, since the ray of
REL:Sphere:Thus
EVI:Ebooks:do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
EVI:Much:very much in favour of the validity of the principle of relativity.
EVI:Complete:complete revolution by an amount given by
SEQ:Since:Above
SEQ:Always:Depend
SEQ:Impact:Against
EVI:Project:all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
EVI:Cannot:International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
SEQ:Until:Reach
SEQ:Unification:Came
EVI:Smallness:the smallness of
SEQ:Fact:Surface
SEQ:Lines:Stretch
EVI:Orbit:been known that the ellipse corresponding to the orbit of Mercury,
SEQ:Slab:Provided
EVI:Serve:innumerable laws which would serve the same purpose, without our being
EVI:Built:which, in general, is built up logically from a small number of
EVI:Shall:exactly. I shall prepare the reader for this in the following
EVI:Shall:the present we shall assume the “truth” of the geometrical
SEQ:Body:Specification
SEQ:Despite:Profound
REL:Respect:Space
EVI:Space:space-time continuum cannot be regarded as a Euclidean one, but that
SEQ:Arbitrary:Shall
EVI:Promoting:To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
SEQ:Cast:Somewhat
EVI:Lightning:that the lightning flash _B_ took place earlier than the lightning
CON:Magnificent
SEQ:Physics:Formulates
EVI:Analogous:analogous to those holding in our three-dimensional measurements.
EVI:Powerful:result we have gained a powerful argument for a generalised postulate
EVI:Termed:_x_2, _x_3, _x_4, was called “world” by Minkowski, who also termed a
CON:Copied
EVI:Hang:result of this will be to stretch the rope so that it will hang
EVI:Definite:A ray of light requires a perfectly definite time _T_ to pass from one
EVI:Hypotheses:consideration which borrowed two unjustifiable hypotheses from
SEQ:Particular:Motion
SEQ:Influence:Radial
EVI:Electromagnetic:Faraday-Maxwell interpretation of electromagnetic action at a distance
EVI:Royalties:the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
EVI:Density:fixed stars of approrimately the same kind and density.
EVI:Parts:other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
SEQ:Decreases:Again
EVI:Sole:attainable at the present time. The sole exception is Mercury, the
SEQ:Divide:Problem
SEQ:Equal:Constant
EVI:Purposely:Hitherto I have purposely refrained from speaking about the physical
CON:Vantage
EVI:Moves:[6] That is, a curve along which the body moves.
EVI:Line:function of a straight line. In the manner indicated in Section II we
CON:Comply
EVI:Position:independent of the position and the condition of motion of the system
SEQ:Importance:Mention
EVI:Planet:manner that, in the course of a planet-year, the distance sun-planet
EVI:Exact:assign an exact meaning to the natural laws in which these occur.
EVI:Floor:of the chest will be transmitted to him by the reaction of the floor of
SEQ:Change:Energy
EVI:Agrees:which agrees with Fizeau’s result.
SEQ:Still:Greater
SEQ:Size:Relations
SEQ:Maintain:Clearness
CON:Riding
EVI:Major:expression _a_ represents the major semi-axis of the ellipse, _e_ its
CON:Frameworks
EVI:Always:this latter theory the velocity of light must always depend on the
SEQ:Where:Magnitudes
SEQ:Close:Together
EVI:Infinite:about the finite or infinite character of (three-dimensional) space,
EVI:General:the basis of the general principle of relativity he is justified in
SEQ:Surface:Finite
EVI:Give:The present book is intended, as far as possible, to give an exact
EVI:Standard:of theoretical physics. The work presumes a standard of education
CON:Closed
SEQ:Course:Same
EVI:Xxiii:a specific illustration in Section XXIII, we found that the presence of
CON:Often
CON:Slightest
EVI:Principle:to doubt the validity of this principle of relativity. But in view of
EVI:Classical:classical mechanics. The first term _mc_2 does not contain the
EVI:Ordinates:define exactly the co-ordinates _x, y, z_ relative to the disc by means
CON:Previous
SEQ:Explanation:Course
CON:Dealt
SEQ:Embankment:Mean
EVI:Motion:a state of uniform motion of translation relative to _K_, or, briefly,
SEQ:Results:Must
EVI:Then:condition, then at least one of the two fundamental assumptions of the
SEQ:About:Thirty
EVI:Reference:differences _dx, dy, dz_ and the time-difference _dt_. With reference
REL:Transcribe:Proofread
EVI:Attention:frequently, without paying the slightest attention to the elegance of
EVI:Foundation:the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
CON:Disorder
EVI:Obtain:However, we obtain a new result of fundamental importance when we carry
CON:Independence
EVI:Played:by our actual knowledge, played an important part in this process of
EVI:Pages:following pages, would perhaps have got no farther than its long
EVI:Empirical:the empirical physical foundations of the theory in a “step-motherly”
EVI:Relativity:According to the theory of relativity, action at a distance with the
EVI:Theory:purely formal addition to our knowledge, the theory perforce gained
EVI:Evident:more and more evident that classical mechanics affords an insufficient
SEQ:Space:Distance
EVI:Role:plays a fundamental role in this theory. In Part II we shall see in
EVI:Strictly:relative to _K′_. Strictly speaking, such an æther-drift ought also to
EVI:Full:THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
EVI:Just:points _A_ and _B_ of the embankment which are just being passed by the
EVI:Nature:nature, and was obtained by the use of particular hypotheses as to the
EVI:Produced:is produced by the Newtonian field of attraction of the sun, and the
CON:Standard
EVI:Gravitation:XXIX. The Solution of the Problem of Gravitation on the Basis of the General Principle of Relativity
SEQ:Preceding:Discussion
EVI:Relative:relative to _K′_. Strictly speaking, such an æther-drift ought also to
EVI:Lorentz:accordance with the Lorentz transformation, the law of the transmission
EVI:Theory:course from the theory of Newton, a small variation from the
EVI:Motion:orbital motion. The value obtained for this rotary movement of the
EVI:Each:the places _A_ and _B_, where the lightning occurs, meet each other at
REL:Mathematician:Seized
EVI:Already:identical with _x, y, z, t_. It has already been set forth in detail
EVI:Small:(indefinitely small differences).
EVI:Dimensional:In the first place, we imagine an existence in two dimensional space.
SEQ:Numerous:Forth
REL:Motion:Physically
EVI:Hitherto:them, the nature of which has hitherto remained obscure to us.[13] If
EVI:Elliptical:elliptical) excels in its simplicity, since all points on it are
EVI:Through:curvature of its path when passing through a gravitational field, this
EVI:Results:results are obtained in an exceedingly simple manner, and the effects
EVI:Behave:We are acquainted with space-time domains which behave (approximately)
EVI:Purely:the theory of relativity. This theory was of a purely electrodynamical
EVI:Consequence:the process, has, as a consequence, its energy increased by an amount
EVI:Frame:field is absent _i.e._ which have already been fitted into the frame of
EVI:Cosmological:(“cosmological term of the field equations”).
SEQ:Difficult:Understand
CON:Shall
EVI:Kilometres:30 kilometres per second. If the principle of relativity were not valid
EVI:States:at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States,
CON:Founded
EVI:Take:freely-moving material points continues to take place according to the
EVI:Plane:Geometry sets out from certain conceptions such as “plane,” “point,”
EVI:Velocity:the centre of the disc has no velocity, whereas the clock at the edge
EVI:Between:judged from this reference-body, the time which elapses between two
EVI:Confused:already mentioned, this is self-evident, but it must not be confused
EVI:Ensure:long. To ensure the equality of the diagonals, we make use of a little
EVI:Surmount:surmount this difficulty. We refer the four-dimensional space-time
SEQ:Equations:Transformation
SEQ:Continuum:Done
EVI:Circumstance:dissatisfied until I have discovered some circumstance to which I can
SEQ:Place:Simultaneously
SEQ:Planet:Ellipse
EVI:Space:three-dimensional spherical space is quite analogous to the
EVI:Distance:showed a red shift which increased regularly with the distance of the
EVI:Best:to the best of my knowledge, was first discussed in detail by the
SEQ:Called:Galileian
EVI:Manifests:_The same_ quality of a body manifests itself according to
EVI:Obtain:We thus obtain the following result: Every description of events in
CON:Markup
SEQ:Standard:Education
REL:Office:Located
EVI:Clocks:XXIII. Behaviour of Clocks and Measuring-Rods on a Rotating Body of Reference
EVI:Arrangement:should be supplied with an arrangement (_e.g._ two mirrors inclined at
EVI:References:all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
SEQ:Give:Exact
EVI:Experience:with experience (Riemann, Helmholtz). These questions have already been
EVI:World:in which the “world radius” depends on time (expanding space). In that
SEQ:Lightning:Occurs
EVI:Deduction:Astronomical Society for the investigation of this important deduction.
EVI:Body:fundamental equations of the electrodynamics of Maxwell: A body moving
SEQ:Requirements:Paragraphs
EVI:Relatively:On the other hand, all coordinate systems _K′_ moving relatively to _K_
EVI:Each:such a nature that numerical values differing very slightly from each
SEQ:Follow:Those
EVI:Identically:linear homogeneous functions of _x_1, _x_2, _x_3 which identically
SEQ:Admit:Remaining
EVI:Frequently:frequently, without paying the slightest attention to the elegance of
EVI:Clock:the one clock is _simultaneous_ (in the above sense) with the _same_
SEQ:Values:Thus
SEQ:Common:First
EVI:Division:from which, by division, the expression
EVI:Curves:_v_-curves, and thus also relative to the surface of the table. For the
CON:Specify
SEQ:Guilty:Certain
REL:Arcs:Circles
EVI:Magnetic:deflection of these rays under the influence of electric and magnetic
EVI:Field:field must be satisfied for all gravitational fields obtainable in this
SEQ:Carriage:Velocity
REL:Agreement:Help
SEQ:Refer:Same
SEQ:Consideration:Also
EVI:Inclusive:and to their flat “things” is the all-inclusive reality of their plane.
SEQ:Only:Towards
EVI:Influenced:influenced only to an exceedingly small extent by masses even of the
EVI:Surface:æther-drift at the earth’s surface.
CON:Precision
EVI:Satisfied:the two events took place simultaneously or not.” I cannot be satisfied
REL:Class:Facts
EVI:Such:fundamental assumptions, the so-called axioms. We call such a system of
EVI:Leads:hardly be doubted from a theoretical point of view), leads to an origin
EVI:Particular:DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state
SEQ:Granted:Propagation
EVI:Magnet:strives to move towards the magnet. We shall not discuss here the
EVI:Stretch:Suppose we draw lines or stretch strings in all directions from a
EVI:Associated:(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
EVI:Possess:ought to possess something of the nature of a centre. Of course we
SEQ:Body:Imagine
SEQ:Arranged:Rest
EVI:Velocity:rectilinearly with the velocity _c_. It can easily be shown that the
CON:Investigator
EVI:Being:things, then we can characterise the development which is being
EVI:Start:We start off on a consideration of a Galileian domain, _i.e._ a domain
EVI:Field:in which there is no gravitational field relative to the Galileian
EVI:Theoretical:science has emerged from its initial stages, theoretical advances are
EVI:Laws:development of electrodynamics the laws of electrostatics were looked
CON:Annular
EVI:Electronic:electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
EVI:Furnish:furnish us with important information as to the mass of the heavenly
SEQ:Direct:Indirect
SEQ:Than:Lightning
SEQ:Square:Reference
SEQ:Obtain:Generalisation
EVI:Ordinates:of co-ordinates.
EVI:Xxviii:XXVIII. Exact Formulation of the General Principle of Relativity
EVI:Used:used before. Let us consider a space time domain in which no
SEQ:Gutenberg:Mission
EVI:Point:material point of mass _m_ is no longer given by the well-known
SEQ:Behave:More
EVI:Full:same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
CON:Withal
SEQ:Prominence:Relationship
EVI:Earth:direction of the velocity of revolution of the earth in the course of a
SEQ:Allowed:Simple
EVI:Absolutely:nevertheless, because in reality it assumes absolutely nothing about
SEQ:Result:Application
EVI:Universe:the universe is infinite. There are stars everywhere, so that the
EVI:Little:necessarily come into disorder during the heating, because the little
SEQ:Works:Print
EVI:Very:copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
EVI:Consideration:this way, so that our consideration supplies us with nothing
EVI:Project:the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
EVI:Leading:have no further difficulty in understanding the methods leading to the
EVI:Made:question whether or not the motion of the earth in space can be made
EVI:Beings:a curve, which we “three-dimensional beings” designate as a great
CON:Potential
SEQ:Introduction:More
EVI:Thus:transformation thus:
SEQ:Name:Assigned
CON:Alike
EVI:Agreement:and the general theory of relativity on the other. This agreement goes
SEQ:Conception:Replace
SEQ:Between:Theories
CON:Motherly
CON:Opposite
EVI:Merely:no longer achieved merely by a process of arrangement. Guided by
SEQ:Path:Curve
EVI:Present:present case we can divide the problem into parts by considering first
EVI:Distance:“time-distance ” of the same events with respect to _K_. But the
SEQ:Data:Does
SEQ:Part:Reader
EVI:Acceleration:acceleration or curvature corresponds to the influence on the moving
SEQ:Field:Just
CON:Discovering
SEQ:Damages:Even
EVI:Determines:determines the magnitude of the tension of the rope is the _inertial
EVI:Shall:rigid bodies and clocks, which shall be of such a nature that
SEQ:Sphere:Means
SEQ:Fundamental:Ideas
SEQ:Body:Happen
EVI:Liability:liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
SEQ:Acts:Directly
EVI:Definition:It is clear that this definition can be used to give an exact meaning
EVI:Often:number which tells us how often the rod has to be laid down is the
EVI:Gravitational:gravitational field in a purely theoretical manner. Let us suppose, for
EVI:Rays:of rays of light can only take place when the velocity of propagation
SEQ:Disc:Latter
SEQ:Bonn:Result
EVI:Traverses:of the carriage. As a consequence of his walking, however, he traverses
EVI:Than:with more respect than love—the magnificent structure, on the lofty
SEQ:Section:Xxvi
SEQ:Truth:Individual
EVI:Principle:But this result comes into conflict with the principle of relativity
EVI:These:resulting when the motion is parallel to these planes. Although the
EVI:Whenever:prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
SEQ:Choose:Give
SEQ:Assumes:Great
SEQ:Cartesian:Ordinate
EVI:Gauss:substitutions_ of the Gauss variables _x_1, _x_2, _x_3, _x_4, the
EVI:Also:Those space-time points (events) which satisfy (1) must also satisfy
REL:Exception:Mercury
SEQ:Behaviour:Isolated
EVI:Body:exceeded by any real body.
EVI:Reality:error, we can disregard the fact that in reality these frameworks would
EVI:Indicating:indicating that the carriage is at rest, but the embankment in motion.
EVI:Arise:There does arise, however, a strange difficulty. The interpretation of
EVI:Motion:When we were describing the motion of a material point relative to a
SEQ:According:Recent
SEQ:Chest:Regard
EVI:Values:where the magnitudes _g_11, etc., have values which vary with the
EVI:General:cannot hold exactly on the rotating disc, nor in general in a
CON:Seems
EVI:Move:But speculations on the structure of the universe also move in quite
EVI:Accordance:_x_-axis, and this light-stimulus advances in accordance with the
EVI:Body:Euclidean properties; thus the fictitious rigid body of reference is of
SEQ:Inadequate:What
SEQ:Light:Takes
SEQ:Body:Moves
SEQ:These:Attempts
SEQ:Pointers:Other
EVI:Relative:of bodies relative to the person in the railway carriage. The
SEQ:Order:Able
CON:Ideas
SEQ:Either:Principle
EVI:Reference:when the reference-body is rotating uniformly.
SEQ:Body:Possessing
SEQ:Public:Support
EVI:Assumptions:assumptions of the two theories. In what follows, we shall again
SEQ:Reference:Consideration
EVI:Following:and _b_ were known. These result from the following discussion.
EVI:Opposed:an astronomical day, a result which is opposed to the statement of the
EVI:Logically:logically rigid theory could be arrived at. This theory has been called
SEQ:Conceivable:Amongst
EVI:Rate:clock is at rest, then the “rate” of the clock (_v_) when it is moving
SEQ:Newtonian:Theory
SEQ:Played:Important
SEQ:Usual:Time
CON:Secure
EVI:Expression:absolute angular measure customary in physics, and the above expression
SEQ:Surface:Smaller
EVI:Theory:COSMOLOGICAL DIFFICULTIES OF NEWTON’S THEORY
EVI:Behaviour:different behaviour of bodies considered with respect to the reference
SEQ:Kind:Possible
EVI:Field:at rest in the gravitational field.
SEQ:More:Rapidly
EVI:Time:After thinking the matter over for some time you then offer the
SEQ:Small:Piece
CON:Variation
EVI:Circular:reference to the circular disc _K′_, these definitions being based on
CON:Took
SEQ:Pages:Perhaps
CON:Coming
SEQ:Chest:Fixes
CON:Prevent
SEQ:Sufficient:Compensate
EVI:Velocity:of the inaccuracy involved by the finiteness of the velocity of
EVI:Measured:distance can be measured up. It is the simplest plan to use the train
SEQ:Does:Fall
EVI:According:is fulfilled in general, where λ indicates a constant; for, according
EVI:Purely:showed that a different hypothesis was natural from a purely
EVI:Embankment:system). As such a system let us again choose our embankment. We shall
EVI:Great:been confirmed with great precision in recent years.
SEQ:Dilemma:Appears
EVI:Quotient:the one by the other, he will not obtain as quotient the familiar
SEQ:Events:Occur
EVI:Light:ray of light (and of course for every ray) with respect to _K_ and
EVI:Great:Newton’s law, in which he assumes that for great distances the force of
REL:Kind:Body
EVI:Part:1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
REL:Registration:Stars
EVI:Conceive:words: Can we conceive of a relation between place and time of the
EVI:Briefly:Poincaré, whereas I can only touch on them briefly here.
EVI:Rigidly:rigidly attached to a rigid body. Referred to a system of co-ordinates,
EVI:Bound:Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
EVI:Moment:following. If at any moment three squares meet at a corner, then two
SEQ:Defect:Cause
EVI:Fact:speak of a “continuum,” and owing to the fact that there are three
EVI:Later:here we shall have to deal in detail later.
SEQ:Train:Just
EVI:Other:which the electrical masses are quite at rest relatively to each other,
SEQ:Difficulty:Confronted
EVI:Aided:Aided by the following illustration, we can readily see that, in
EVI:General:theory would have been disproved. Let us now examine what general
EVI:Calculate:not suffice to calculate the observed motion of Mercury with an
EVI:Obvious:obvious consideration of Section VI. Namely, if the man in the carriage
SEQ:Place:Expression
SEQ:Able:Apply
EVI:Time:in place of _t_, as time-variable. If, in accordance with this, we
EVI:Particular:particular point of the train. Also the definition of simultaneity can
EVI:Charges:the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
EVI:Following:to the embankment. As a natural consequence, however, the following
CON:Gained
SEQ:Those:Real
EVI:Always:is Euclidean, then _F_ = 4π_r_2; if it is spherical, then _F_ is always
EVI:Formulation:We are now in a position to replace the provisional formulation of the
EVI:Very:the theory of relativity, and the agreement is, indeed, very exact.
EVI:Ordinate:and to the co-ordinate system. Should we be justified in saying that
EVI:Dealing:velocity, and requires no consideration if we are only dealing with the
SEQ:Body:Behaviour
EVI:Hypothesis:showed that a different hypothesis was natural from a purely
EVI:Science:comparison. Regarded in this way, the development of a science bears
SEQ:More:Analyse
EVI:Have:determine the length of the pole we should have required in order to
EVI:Keeping:works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
EVI:Surface:two-dimensional spherical surface. It is finite (_i.e._ of finite
EVI:Farther:directly; the intensity and direction of the field at points farther
SEQ:Train:When
SEQ:Description:World
EVI:Discussed:to the best of my knowledge, was first discussed in detail by the
EVI:Close:so close together as to give continuity; corresponding to the material
EVI:Length:therefore follows that the length of a rigid metre-rod moving in the
CON:Doubt
EVI:Existence:existence of the deflection of light demanded by theory was first
EVI:Bodies:reference-bodies, in the sense of the method followed in the special
SEQ:Derivative:Works
EVI:Rest:line or continue in a state of rest. We have also repeatedly emphasised
CON:Come
SEQ:Ellipse:Such
SEQ:Line:Manner
EVI:Relativity:In accordance with the principle of relativity we shall certainly have
CON:Initial
SEQ:Complete:Revolution
EVI:Taking:making the adjustments required for the taking of the photographs, and
SEQ:Fulfilled:Actual
EVI:Reject:more inclined to reject the principle of relativity, in spite of the
EVI:Relative:railway carriage would be a system _K_, relative to which less simple
CON:Revenue
EVI:These:situated there. These data must be supplemented by such a definition of
SEQ:Theoretical:Possibilities
CON:Page
EVI:Quite:gravitational fields, but only for those of quite special form. It is,
EVI:Class:The second class of facts to which we have alluded has reference to the
EVI:Latter:_x, y, z_, of the first point. In virtue of the latter property we
CON:Inverse
EVI:Even:same laws, even in the case where the prevailing gravitational field is
EVI:Framework:framework. Similarly, we can imagine the train travelling with the
EVI:Realisation:and their rods withal as the realisation of “distance”? They cannot do
SEQ:First:Considered
SEQ:Public:Domain
SEQ:Time:Elapses
EVI:Full:full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.
SEQ:Estimated:Magnitude
EVI:Gutenberg:www.gutenberg.org/license.
EVI:Physicist:physicist), when I imagine that I am able to attach a meaning to the
EVI:Suppose:gravitational field in a purely theoretical manner. Let us suppose, for
EVI:According:satisfactory. According to this theory there is no such thing as a
SEQ:Continue:Move
EVI:Manner:gravitational field in a purely theoretical manner. Let us suppose, for
CON:Supplied
EVI:Difficulties:no pretence of having withheld from the reader difficulties which are
EVI:Ought:geometrical behaviour of the rods is _almost_ as it ought to be
EVI:Disregard:stars, if we could disregard the motion of the fixed stars themselves
EVI:Relativity:PART I: THE SPECIAL THEORY OF RELATIVITY
EVI:Warn:field. Before proceeding farther, however, I must warn the reader
EVI:Contained:priori;_ it is not contained in the conceptions of “motion” and
SEQ:Regards:Influence
EVI:Result:flash _A_. We thus arrive at the important result:
EVI:Consideration:the light of the following consideration.
SEQ:Statements:Concerning
CON:Confirmation
SEQ:Space:Must
SEQ:Confirmed:Planets
EVI:Rules:according to the rules of Euclidean geometry. Hence the imperfections
EVI:Motion:Galileian law of the uniform rectilinear motion of “isolated” material
SEQ:More:Precisely
EVI:Gravitational:we are able to disregard the influences of gravitational fields on the
CON:System
SEQ:User:Provide
SEQ:Thus:Circular
CON:Throwing
EVI:Freely:remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
REL:Part:Space
EVI:Copyright:or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
SEQ:Positions:Stars
EVI:Constant:ρ is the average density of the matter and _k_ is a constant connected
EVI:Gives:the measurement gives a whole number. This difficulty is got over by
SEQ:Associated:Appearing
CON:Show
REL:Stars:Also
CON:Electronically
EVI:Removing:postulate of relativity excels not only in its beauty; nor in removing
EVI:Heating:necessarily come into disorder during the heating, because the little
EVI:Familiar:I have chosen this as being more familiar to the English reader than
EVI:Line:little rod, which has been used as a “distance” (line-interval). By
SEQ:Constructed:Rods
EVI:Should:character of times and lengths, then instead of the above we should
EVI:These:values of these two points at the time _t_ = 0 can be shown to be
EVI:Considerations:from the foregoing considerations, and which has been most elegantly
EVI:Without:the form of radiation without suffering an alteration in velocity in
EVI:First:First Published: December, 1916
EVI:Thus:enclose the average mass ρ0_V_. Thus the number of lines of force
EVI:Geometry:a two-dimensional geometry, just as much as for a plane surface. Gauss
EVI:Content:be content to regard this as meaning that the magnet acts directly on
SEQ:Have:Confronted
SEQ:Required:Order
EVI:Work:_i.e._ the work, considered negatively, which must be performed on the
CON:Lawson
EVI:Fundamental:also lead, and this despite the profound difference in the fundamental
EVI:Only:formulated in a particularly simple manner, and of course only on
CON:Justifiable
EVI:Withhold:at the root of things, I dare not withhold it from the reader. We
EVI:Contended:Hence it cannot be contended that the man in walking travels the
REL:Naturally:Maintain
EVI:Makes:astronomy makes it appear likely that the development of individual
SEQ:Outdated:Equipment
EVI:Inquire:course much less. Let us inquire about the velocity of propagation of
EVI:Lorentz:extent, that no other theory than that of Maxwell and Lorentz has been
EVI:Pair:pair of events _A, C_ is also satisfied. This assumption is a physical
EVI:Radius:up to a maximum value which is determined by the “world-radius,” but
EVI:Compared:In the first place, it can be compared with the reality. Although a
EVI:Transformation:XI. The Lorentz Transformation
SEQ:Takes:Granted
EVI:Place:convenience the constants _a_ and _b_ in place of the constants λ and μ
EVI:When:When we were describing the motion of a material point relative to a
SEQ:Motions:Heavenly
EVI:Deal:necessary until we come to deal with the general theory of relativity,
SEQ:Inner:Side
CON:Unfounded
SEQ:Obviously:Holds
SEQ:Satisfies:Equation
EVI:Principle:grounds for extending the principle of relativity to include bodies of
EVI:Observation:observation during a total eclipse of the sun. At such times, these
EVI:Must:(_a_) The required generalisation must likewise satisfy the general
SEQ:Best:Experimental
CON:Free
EVI:Bring:bring some one a few happy hours of suggestive thought!
CON:Drawn
SEQ:Living:Euclidean
EVI:Project:of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
SEQ:Proceeding:Farther
EVI:Periodic:legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
REL:Condition:Motion
EVI:Should:should be constrained to believe that natural laws are capable of being
EVI:Have:on the Galileian transformation we should not have obtained a
SEQ:Then:Diameter
EVI:Difficult:Before the theory of relativity was put forward, it was difficult to
SEQ:Then:Find
SEQ:Uniformly:Drop
CON:Successfully
CON:Allotted
EVI:Have:have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
EVI:Accelerated:take part in the accelerated motion of the chest, and it transmits this
SEQ:Masses:Electron
SEQ:Belongs:Every
SEQ:Suitably:Chosen
EVI:Declare:me—and rightly so—and you declare: “I maintain my previous definition
EVI:Despite:also lead, and this despite the profound difference in the fundamental
REL:Angle:Deflection
EVI:Basis:distance _AB_. This is the basis of all measurement of length.[2]
SEQ:Especially:Commercial
EVI:Feel:the basis of a logical process, the justification of which we feel
EVI:Actual:But this point of view by no means embraces the whole of the actual
EVI:Dimensional:hears of “four-dimensional” things, by a feeling not unlike that
SEQ:Save:Precision
SEQ:Permission:Writing
SEQ:Regarded:First
EVI:Still:The Lorentz transformation represented by (8) and (9) still requires to
SEQ:Distance:Observer
REL:Supposed:Hold
EVI:Dimensional:three-dimensional continuum of Euclidean geometrical space.[14] In
SEQ:Escape:Dilemma
SEQ:What:Understood
EVI:Principle:the _special_ principle of relativity, or special theory of relativity.
EVI:Operates:magnetic field operates on the piece of iron, so that the latter
REL:Manner:Gauss
EVI:Impossible:considered, and for this reason it would appear to be impossible that
CON:Task
EVI:Consequence:necessary consequence. Prominent theoretical physicists were therefore
SEQ:Light:Then
EVI:Having:to many points in motion. The only statements having regard to these
SEQ:Enters:Sphere
SEQ:Paid:Obtaining
SEQ:Edge:Disc
EVI:Euclidean:Euclidean three-dimensional space, then there exists for this surface
REL:Commissioned:Determine
SEQ:Space:Imagine
SEQ:Earth:Certain
SEQ:Than:Plain
SEQ:Find:Motion
EVI:Masses:we now assume that the relative distances between the electrical masses
CON:December
EVI:Pointers:set in such a manner that a _particular_ position of the pointers of
EVI:Much:on the range are two pans so much alike that one may be mistaken for
SEQ:Produced:Light
SEQ:Have:Discovered
SEQ:Moving:Uniformly
REL:Stars:Approrimately
EVI:Reference:reference to _K_ is known from the special theory of relativity,
EVI:Included:the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
SEQ:Question:General
SEQ:Choose:Time
EVI:Straight:lie “in reality” on a straight line or on a parabola? Moreover, what is
CON:Valuable
EVI:Restrictions:other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
EVI:Provided:the conservation of energy, and is only valid provided that the system
EVI:Body:_The same_ quality of a body manifests itself according to
EVI:First:If, then, the observer first measures the circumference of the disc
EVI:Part:plays the part of a limiting velocity, which can neither be reached nor
SEQ:Form:Including
EVI:Word:entirely shun the vague word “space,” of which, we must honestly
EVI:Arbitrary:arbitrary? The method of Cartesian coordinates must then be discarded,
SEQ:Beings:Designate
EVI:Scene:co-ordinates (_x, y, z_) which can be dropped from the scene of the
EVI:Clocks:positions of the clocks. We shall now examine this dependence
EVI:Takes:which takes place anywhere can be localised with reference to this
SEQ:Represent:Motions
SEQ:Expressed:Short
SEQ:Given:Priority
SEQ:More:Difficult
EVI:Grasping:rather admit that his mode of grasping the situation violates neither
SEQ:Thus:Previous
SEQ:Doubted:Theoretical
SEQ:More:Independent
EVI:Course:instance, that we know the space-time “course” for any natural process
EVI:Conjunction:following conclusion from these premises, in conjunction with the
EVI:Towards:_M_ but it moves towards the right in the diagram with the velocity v
REL:Kind:Gravitational
SEQ:Holds:True
EVI:Point:London” is a well-defined point, to which a name has been assigned, and
SEQ:Magnitudes:Depend
SEQ:Problem:Important
SEQ:Rapidly:Than
SEQ:Performances:Research
EVI:Dependent:the surface of rigid bodies, and is dependent on the existence of
SEQ:Follows:Gauss
SEQ:Position:Object
EVI:Different:simultaneously for different colours during the eclipse of a fixed star
EVI:Each:definition of time. We have to imagine each of these clocks fixed at a
EVI:Very:I am very pleased with this suggestion, but for all that I cannot
EVI:Point:These _u_-curves must not intersect each other, and through each point
EVI:Making:we must then express _x′_ and _t′_ in terms of _x_ and _t_, making use
EVI:Walks:from people in all walks of life.
EVI:Displacements:whether or not these displacements are to be referred in reality to the
SEQ:Smile:Errs
SEQ:Particles:Very
SEQ:Identical:Already
SEQ:Itself:Unable
SEQ:Uniform:Straight
EVI:Choose:not only to _two_ events, but to as many events as we care to choose,
EVI:Bears:comparison. Regarded in this way, the development of a science bears
CON:Check
SEQ:Light:Velocity
CON:Uncertainty
SEQ:Supplies:Nothing
EVI:Already:principle according to the method which has already been explained for
SEQ:Distributor:Under
EVI:Project:Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
SEQ:Enough:Effect
EVI:Space:The next step is to investigate the space-time behaviour of the
EVI:Does:In point of fact, astronomers have found that the theory of Newton does
SEQ:Description:Scene
EVI:Might:of light varies with position. Now we might think that as a consequence
EVI:Then:_x′_2, _x′_3) with the same origin, then _x′_1, _x′_2, _x′_3, are
EVI:Exists:Euclidean three-dimensional space, then there exists for this surface
SEQ:Respect:These
SEQ:Body:Laws
SEQ:Earth:Cannot
CON:Conscientiously
EVI:Finite:universe has a finite area that can be compared with the area, of a
SEQ:Solution:Owing
EVI:Ordinate:introduce into the latter a new Cartesian co-ordinate system (_x′_1,
EVI:Importance:any doubt to arise as to the prime importance of the Galileian
SEQ:Equations:Often
EVI:Gutenberg:additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
SEQ:Imagine:Large
EVI:Disappears:[18] The field disappears at the centre of the disc and increases
EVI:Physical:a physical interpretation of this law.
SEQ:Equations:Same
SEQ:Electric:Magnetic
EVI:Leads:embankment and relative to the train? This question leads to a quite
CON:Temperature
SEQ:Call:Magnetic
SEQ:Physicist:Fizeau
EVI:Equations:equations which express the general laws of nature pass over into
EVI:These:and _b_ were known. These result from the following discussion.
EVI:Itself:_The same_ quality of a body manifests itself according to
EVI:Systems:co-ordinate systems.” For these systems, the four co-ordinates _x, y,
SEQ:Associate:Ordinates
SEQ:Magnitude:Might
EVI:Dimensional:_x, y, z, t_ = four-dimensional co-ordinates
EVI:Velocity:But the metre-rod is moving with the velocity _v_ relative to _K_. It
EVI:Copying:agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
EVI:Confirmed:has been confirmed for all the planets save one, with the precision
EVI:Virtue:time that, in virtue of this definition, these time-values can be
EVI:Such:which can be described by co-ordinates such as _x1, y1, z1_, which may
EVI:Process:slightly different time _T′_ is required for this process, if the body,
EVI:Before:Before the theory of relativity was put forward, it was difficult to
CON:Self
SEQ:Previous:Conclusions
SEQ:Raised:Against
SEQ:Newton:Constant
SEQ:Fact:Theory
EVI:Displaying:1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
EVI:Masses:influenced only to an exceedingly small extent by masses even of the
CON:Release
SEQ:Degree:Plausibility
SEQ:Relatively:Uniformly
EVI:Marking:measures the interval by marking off his measuring-rod in a straight
EVI:Railway:Lightning has struck the rails on our railway embankment at two places
EVI:Following:have obtained the following equations:
EVI:World:But the spherical-surface beings do not need to go on a world-tour in
EVI:Equal:Let us now imagine that a large number of little rods of equal length
CON:Recognised
EVI:Fact:of treating time as an independent continuum. As a matter of fact,
EVI:Gutenberg:Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may
REL:Transmission:Electromagnetic
EVI:Cosmological:COSMOLOGICAL DIFFICULTIES OF NEWTON’S THEORY
EVI:Some:as a process impossible without the intervention of some intermediary
EVI:Financial:Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
SEQ:Square:Reaches
EVI:When:1 when measured in the _K′_ system are thus separated in our
SEQ:Translator:Robert
SEQ:Account:Expression
EVI:Unheard:unheard-of values—provided that we are viewing all this from another
EVI:Such:License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
SEQ:Lead:Directly
EVI:Process:indeed every other process) to a rigid reference-body (co-ordinate
EVI:Observation:result of observation in astronomy, against which classical mechanics
SEQ:Resulting:Basis
SEQ:Expression:Also
EVI:Astoundingly:latter been developed trom electrodynamics as an astoundingly simple
SEQ:Practically:Anything
EVI:Gravitational:a gravitational field invalidates the definition of the coordinates and
SEQ:Following:Seen
SEQ:Kind:Curved
EVI:Neither:_A_ → _M_ as for the path _B_ → _M_ is in reality neither a
EVI:Xxiii:XXIII. Behaviour of Clocks and Measuring-Rods on a Rotating Body of Reference
EVI:Considerations:meant here by motion “in space”? From the considerations of the
EVI:Efforts:Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
EVI:Velocities:velocities that are small compared with the velocity of light; hence we
EVI:Special:requiring any special hypothesis whatsoever as to the structure and the
EVI:Theory:important idea contributed by Minkowski. Without it the general theory
SEQ:Manner:Faraday
EVI:Near:sun that the stars situated near the sun’s disc are invisible. The
EVI:Within:be correct to within a few seconds of arc. This effect can be explained
EVI:More:[15] The objection is of importance more especially when the state of
EVI:Also:in both cases. This can also be expressed as follows: For the physical
REL:Effect:About
EVI:Unity:is small compared with unity, the third of these terms is always small
EVI:More:electromagnetic phenomena can be theoretically represented much more
SEQ:Something:Lodged
SEQ:Individual:Work
SEQ:Many:Such
EVI:Physics:relativity. The development of theoretical physics shows, however, that
EVI:Creating:displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
SEQ:Only:Loose
SEQ:Rectangular:Components
SEQ:Theories:Evolved
EVI:Have:to unity. We then have the following law: The _gravitational_ mass of a
SEQ:Influenced:Similar
EVI:Action:and the action of the other planets under consideration. Thus, if we
SEQ:Corresponding:Material
EVI:Circular:The observer performs experiments on his circular disc with clocks and
CON:Conveys
EVI:Validity:frequently referred, cannot claim any unlimited validity. A curvature
EVI:Exceedingly:estimated difference between these two times is exceedingly small,
EVI:Conformable:replaced by a more complicated law conformable to the principle of
SEQ:Behaves:Analogously
SEQ:Latter:Light
SEQ:Photographs:Amounted
EVI:Have:potential φ, hence the result we have obtained will hold quite
SEQ:Coordinates:Must
EVI:Hitherto:It is true that this important law had hitherto been recorded in
EVI:Theory:Now before the advent of the theory of relativity it had always tacitly
EVI:Costs:liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
CON:Later
SEQ:Development:Euclidean
EVI:Them:table. These we designate as _u_-curves, and we indicate each of them
CON:Hours
SEQ:Print:Editions
EVI:Introduction:theory, without the introduction of particular hypotheses; and as the
SEQ:Space:Differ
SEQ:Trademark:Charge
SEQ:Theory:Strictly
SEQ:Should:Faced
EVI:Significance:significance, _i.e._ that it is independent of the state of motion of
CON:Virus
EVI:Then:“If we pick up a stone and then let it go, why does it fall to the
CON:Postulates
EVI:Freely:freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
SEQ:Event:Those
EVI:Under:501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
SEQ:Ordinate:System
SEQ:Over:Trafalgar
EVI:Same:Corresponding to the same complex of empirical data, there may be
EVI:Locating:(_b_) In locating the position of the object, we make use of a number
CON:Metrics
SEQ:Correspondence:Real
EVI:Help:Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
SEQ:Position:Pointers
EVI:Carriage:man walking along the carriage, or of the moving point in the present
CON:Slab
CON:Located
SEQ:Same:Motion
EVI:Between:disagreement between these two fundamental results of experience? This
EVI:Theory:theory of relativity, the law of the constancy of the velocity of light
EVI:Clock:his own reference-body occupied by the stone at each tick of the clock
CON:Everything
SEQ:Right:Prevent
CON:Distributor
EVI:Your:with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
EVI:Stone:are in a position to say: The stone traverses a straight line relative
EVI:Functions:linear homogeneous functions of _x_1, _x_2, _x_3 which identically
SEQ:Solar:Eclipse
EVI:Motion:state of motion,” cannot be maintained, because the use of rigid
EVI:Again:they approach each other, and finally they run together again at a
SEQ:Great:Power
SEQ:Insert:Somewhat
EVI:Keep:necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
EVI:When:processes which take place according to known laws when a gravitational
EVI:Thus:numerically equal to the velocity with which he is walking. Thus in
EVI:Special:the demands of the (special) theory of relativity assume mathematical
EVI:Transformation:transformation. We interpret this behaviour as the behaviour of
SEQ:About:Motion
CON:Distinguishable
REL:Anxiety:Unfounded
SEQ:Other:Party
EVI:Distance:instantaneous photograph by the distance
SEQ:Associate:Arbitrarily
EVI:Since:since the equations of such a theory hold for every body of reference,
EVI:Such:such that the sum of the distances _AB_ and _BC_ is as short as
EVI:Universe:plane: something like the rippled surface of a lake. Such a universe
SEQ:Author:Spared
EVI:These:three space co-ordinates. Formally, these four co-ordinates correspond
EVI:Words:for all points of the “worldsphere”; in other words, the “world-sphere”
CON:Mark
SEQ:Applicable:Taxes
EVI:Euclidean:three-dimensional “space” of (Euclidean) analytical geometry. If we
SEQ:Euclidean:Plane
CON:Mathematician
EVI:Gravitational:generally for gravitational fields. Furthermore, we can regard an atom
SEQ:Systems:Moving
CON:Opinion
EVI:Down:description; it is not tied down to the Euclidean character of the
EVI:More:nothing more nor less than the results of measurements obtainable by
EVI:Subject:changes in energy _E_0 to which we can subject a system are not large
SEQ:Stages:Theoretical
REL:Other:Back
SEQ:Text:Gregory
SEQ:Fields:Derived
EVI:Damages:damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
SEQ:Observer:Perceives
SEQ:Need:World
SEQ:Refund:Person
SEQ:Respect:General
EVI:Disdain:certainly regard everyone with disdain who should pronounce even the
SEQ:Uniform:Motion
EVI:Ends:the line joining the free ends of these lines a “circle.” For a plane
SEQ:Number:Public
SEQ:Faced:Task
EVI:However:however, is not concerned with the relation of the ideas involved in it
SEQ:Carriage:Consequence
EVI:Body:considered as reference-body. The general principle of relativity
EVI:Incorrectness:as to its correctness or incorrectness.
SEQ:Result:Stretch
EVI:Moreover:Moreover, at this stage the definition of the space co-ordinates also
SEQ:Styled:Railway
CON:After
CON:Outdated
SEQ:Expect:Light
EVI:Light:the velocity of transmission of light _in vacuo_ has to be considered
EVI:Most:most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
EVI:Using:1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
SEQ:General:Rays
EVI:System:system of stars in the large—as required, according to Friedman, by the
EVI:Universe:But speculations on the structure of the universe also move in quite
SEQ:System:Moving
SEQ:Theory:Gravitation
EVI:Theory:and the general theory of relativity on the other. This agreement goes
EVI:However:than _c_, however great may be the energies used to produce the
SEQ:Assumes:Absolutely
EVI:Permission:are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
EVI:Determine:z, t_, which determine an event or—in other words—a point of the
EVI:Page:Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.
EVI:Four:world in this sense as a four-dimensional continuum is due to the fact
EVI:Order:very exact grasp of this work in order to understand the fundamental
EVI:Hovering:is hovering over Trafalgar Square, then we can determine its position
CON:Possess
EVI:System:system of Michelson and Morley is not shortened, but it _is_ shortened
EVI:Always:individual rods always represent the same distance, independently of
EVI:Parabolic:parabolic curve. I now ask: Do the “positions” traversed by the stone
EVI:Concerned:its result. The experiment is concerned with the following question.
EVI:Hypothetical:regarding _K_ as at rest with respect to a hypothetical æther of space.
EVI:Lines:Mean displacements of lines towards the less refrangible end of the
CON:Breach
REL:Contained:Electrodynamics
SEQ:Flat:Rigid
EVI:Sphere:for all points of the “worldsphere”; in other words, the “world-sphere”
EVI:Manner:satisfactory manner by making a more subtle stipulation about the
SEQ:Works:Using
SEQ:Revised:Edition
EVI:Limited:1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
SEQ:Generally:Accepted
SEQ:Because:Objection
EVI:Propagation:propagation of light must necessarily hold with respect to the
SEQ:Respect:Body
EVI:Paid:or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.
EVI:Euclidean:In particular, the constructions of plane Euclidean geometry can be
SEQ:Points:Inversely
SEQ:Axis:Obtained
EVI:Total:observation during a total eclipse of the sun. At such times, these
SEQ:Agreement:Help
EVI:Results:directly with the reality. But, on the other hand, these results must
EVI:Physical:physical definition of time which is made directly with the aid of
EVI:Principle:general principle of relativity. But in what follows we shall soon see
EVI:Compared:as compared with 1, we can replace (B) in the first place by
EVI:Again:mirror to the other and back again, if the whole system be at rest with
CON:Attaching
EVI:Occur:[7] We suppose further that, when three events _A, B_ and _C_ occur in
SEQ:Systems:Behaviour
EVI:Positive:definite positive answer, and to a perfectly definite transformation
EVI:Regulating:The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
EVI:Liquid:_T_ (see the accompanying diagram, Fig. 3) when the liquid above
SEQ:Appears:First
CON:Distributed
SEQ:Geometrical:Mode
EVI:Difficulty:essence of the difficulty with which we were confronted in Section
SEQ:Operation:Yield
EVI:Along:Then every event which takes place along the line also takes place at a
EVI:Possess:which possess certain unique states of motion, and which are in uniform
SEQ:Events:Definite
EVI:Such:is clearly seen that there is no such thing as an independently
EVI:Round:planet which is revolving round the sun would describe an ellipse round
SEQ:Direction:Same
SEQ:Convince:Themselves
EVI:Another:sky when the sun is situated at another part of the heavens. The
EVI:Thus:co-ordinates of _K_ and _K′_. It thus appears that, of all Galileian
EVI:Still:and for still greater velocities the square-root becomes imaginary.
EVI:Already:field is absent _i.e._ which have already been fitted into the frame of
SEQ:Avail:General
CON:Displayed
EVI:Reason:other reference-bodies (or their states of motion)? _What is the reason
EVI:Surfaces:In practice, the rigid surfaces which constitute the system of
EVI:Orbit:Newton-Kepler motion of a planet in its orbit should take place, and in
SEQ:Clock:Moving
SEQ:Domain:Phenomena
SEQ:Case:Relations
EVI:Along:Let us consider two particular points on the train [8] travelling along
SEQ:Allgemeinen:Theorie
EVI:Conclusion:following conclusion from these premises, in conjunction with the
EVI:Three:solid bodies. In every such framework we imagine three surfaces
EVI:Started:Iines. In the first place, we started out from the assumption that
SEQ:Doubt:About
EVI:Material:material point of mass _m_ is no longer given by the well-known
EVI:Beings:extends exclusively over the surface of the sphere. Are these beings
SEQ:Greatest:Intellectual
SEQ:Same:Occurrence
EVI:Four:_x, y, z, t_ = four-dimensional co-ordinates
SEQ:Once:Possession
EVI:Point:_x, y, z_, of the first point. In virtue of the latter property we
SEQ:Dimensional:Beings
SEQ:University:Matriculation
SEQ:Region:Emptiness
CON:Machine
EVI:Long:it has long been known that the last question is not only unanswerable
EVI:Prominent:necessary consequence. Prominent theoretical physicists were therefore
EVI:Acting:doing this. The force acting on himself, and in fact on all other
EVI:Interval:(1) The time-interval (time) between two events is independent of the
EVI:View:theoretical point of view. He realized that it was possible to preserve
REL:Squares:Each
EVI:Require:to the tube are thus known, and we require the velocity of light
EVI:Card:ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
EVI:Values:such a nature that numerical values differing very slightly from each
EVI:Accordance:accordance with the theory of relativity the kinetic energy of a
SEQ:Adhere:Time
CON:Fulfill
EVI:Exerted:disturbing influences exerted on Mercury by the remaining planets, it
CON:Vague
SEQ:Publisher:Methuen
REL:Relative:Each
SEQ:Recognised:Conservation
EVI:Space:entirely shun the vague word “space,” of which, we must honestly
EVI:Make:general theory of relativity, it is perhaps advisable to make the facts
EVI:Rest:an effect of inertia (centrifugal force) by an observer who was at rest
EVI:Same:deceived as a physicist (and of course the same applies if I am not a
CON:Interesting
EVI:Disc:disc, will, in accordance with Section XII, be given by
SEQ:Variable:Respect
SEQ:Natural:Cosmological
EVI:Motion:experiences a contraction in the direction of motion in consequence of
EVI:Respect:masses move with respect to the coordinate system with velocities which
SEQ:Replace:Provisional
EVI:Only:consideration. Up to the present we have only considered events taking
EVI:Radius:(2) The magnitude (“radius”) of space is independent of time.
SEQ:Referred:System
EVI:Made:constructions to be made with rigid rods _in the surface_ (similar to
SEQ:Quadrilateral:Diagonals
SEQ:Errs:Conclusion
EVI:Asks:this condition of things. He asks: “How does it come that certain
EVI:Theory:solution of which the general theory of relativity supplies the key,
EVI:These:for the body. From these two relations follows:
SEQ:Cannot:Satisfied
SEQ:Conception:Itself
EVI:Lucidity:sins against the sacred spirit of lucidity were I to formulate the aims
EVI:Considered:considered to some extent as a confirmation of the theory.
CON:Regard
SEQ:Relative:Fixed
EVI:Time:the theory of relativity, since according to this theory time is robbed
SEQ:Results:Special
EVI:Small:outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.
EVI:Project:distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.
EVI:Made:local variations of temperature, and with which we made acquaintance as
SEQ:Indicate:Distance
SEQ:Adjacent:Points
EVI:Represents:with respect to _K_. If _v_0, represents the number of ticks of the
CON:Remember
EVI:Realisation:But between the clear vision of this goal and its actual realisation it
CON:Emerged
EVI:Exactly:their measuring-rods and other objects fit exactly on this surface and
EVI:Because:convincingly to the intellect because it is so natural and simple. The
EVI:Return:return later. If the principle of relativity (in the restricted sense)
EVI:Numbers:where _du_ and _dv_ signify very small numbers. In a similar manner we
SEQ:Naturally:Does
SEQ:Universe:Quasi
SEQ:Whom:Paid
SEQ:Relative:Reference
SEQ:Second:Framework
SEQ:Respect:Railway
CON:Sending
SEQ:Mathematician:Consequence
EVI:Michael:Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
EVI:Embankment:In (_a_) the embankment, in (_b_) the carriage, serves as the body of
SEQ:Demand:Refund
EVI:Mechanics:classical mechanics, cannot be maintained; in other words, the law that
CON:Xxii
EVI:Contact:the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
EVI:Negative:Section V that all attempts of this nature led to a negative result.
EVI:Empirical:Corresponding to the same complex of empirical data, there may be
EVI:Edge:the centre of the circular disc, and the other on the edge of the disc,
SEQ:Line:Here
SEQ:Rather:Develops
EVI:Laws:should be constrained to believe that natural laws are capable of being
EVI:Statement:significance of the statement is clear in itself and needs no further
EVI:Contained:circle, _i.e._ a self-contained line of definite finite length, which
EVI:Theory:space-time continuum of the theory of relativity, in its most essential
SEQ:Definite:Proceed
SEQ:Habit:Thought
SEQ:Something:Physically
EVI:Detailed:of mechanics in this way, without serious reflection and detailed
EVI:Mention:theory of relativity. As being of particular importance, I mention here
EVI:Motion:_i.e._ a rigid body the state of motion of which is so chosen that the
SEQ:Without:Necessity
EVI:Ripe:relativity became ripe for discussion, and it did not appear impossible
CON:Arena
EVI:Even:reason nor known mechanical laws. Even though it is being accelerated
EVI:Following:handling the problem can be arrived at in the following way. We imagine
EVI:Other:necessary to take him from the one marked point to the other. Then the
SEQ:Time:Events
EVI:Came:briefly consider how this unification came about, and what meaning is
SEQ:Result:Every
SEQ:Time:Until
CON:Adams
EVI:Properties:have never revealed such anisotropic properties in terrestrial physical
SEQ:Considered:Section
EVI:Velocity:along the rails with a constant velocity _v_, and that a man traverses
SEQ:Treatment:Have
EVI:Irregular:the law of motion is of any kind, however irregular, serve for the
EVI:Begins:us) begins pulling at this with a constant force. The chest together
EVI:Thus:matter. Thus we can draw conclusions about the geometrical structure of
EVI:Reference:reference to the circular disc _K′_, these definitions being based on
CON:Employed
SEQ:Origin:Successive
EVI:Ellipse:expression _a_ represents the major semi-axis of the ellipse, _e_ its
REL:Ordinates:Times
EVI:Heated:the variably heated marble slab, and if we had no other means of
EVI:Active:active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
SEQ:Restrictions:Cannot
EVI:Reference:train will with a vantage view the train as a rigid reference-body
EVI:United:United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
SEQ:Have:Given
SEQ:Sense:Composed
EVI:Distances:such that the sum of the distances _AB_ and _BC_ is as short as
EVI:Solicitation:have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
EVI:Rods:which is determined by the arrangement of little rods.
EVI:Accelerated:reference which are accelerated with respect to each other, and as a
EVI:Then:After thinking the matter over for some time you then offer the
SEQ:Motion:Isolated
CON:Mistaken
EVI:Theory:Newton’s theory, a planet moves round the sun in an ellipse, which
CON:Includes
CON:Provision
EVI:Newton:Galilei-Newton, which is known as the _law of inertia_, can be stated
EVI:States:States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
SEQ:Light:Vacuum
SEQ:Data:Investigator
EVI:Light:this latter theory the velocity of light must always depend on the
EVI:Theory:development of the theory of relativity, does not lie here. It is to be
EVI:Curved:“elliptical space.” It can be regarded as a curved space in which the
EVI:Detected:Mercury, this rotation is too small to be detected with the delicacy of
EVI:Principles:more general theoretical principles as is the law of Newton.
SEQ:Clock:More
EVI:General:ideas of either the special or the general theory of relativity, I
SEQ:Without:Empirical
SEQ:Argument:Generalised
EVI:Disagreement:disagreement between these two fundamental results of experience? This
SEQ:Relative:Position
SEQ:Laws:Alone
EVI:Instead:transformed into a law of exactly the same form when, instead of the
SEQ:Space:Distribution
EVI:Closed:sphere rather than on another closed surface. But this choice has its
EVI:Used:other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
EVI:Provide:• You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
EVI:Diagonals:quadrilateral figure (a square), the diagonals of which are equally
EVI:Apparently:to a second objection which must be raised against the apparently
EVI:Lawson:Translated: Robert W. Lawson (Authorised translation)
CON:Accurately
EVI:Designate:a curve, which we “three-dimensional beings” designate as a great
SEQ:Conditions:Curves
EVI:Field:is produced by the Newtonian field of attraction of the sun, and the
EVI:Maxwell:Now assuming that the Maxwell-Lorentz equations hold for a
SEQ:Manner:Four
SEQ:Physicists:Even
SEQ:Easy:Ebook
CON:Continually
EVI:Careful:for the following reason. As a result of the more careful study of
SEQ:Means:Star
SEQ:Eccentrically:Disc
SEQ:Obtained:Only
SEQ:Asks:Does
SEQ:Carry:Consideration
SEQ:Exclusively:Rather
SEQ:Revenue:Service
EVI:Simultaneity:THE RELATIVITY OF SIMULTANEITY
EVI:Present:so far, that up to the present we have been able to find only a few
EVI:Moving:If we call _v_ the velocity with which the origin of _K′_ is moving
EVI:Almost:almost an exact circle, which makes it more difficult to locate the
CON:Brought
SEQ:Requirements:Know
CON:Doubtless
CON:Continuous
CON:Varies
CON:Radial
CON:Latter
CON:Linked
SEQ:Embankment:Denote
SEQ:Since:Same
EVI:Have:where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
SEQ:What:Experience
CON:Interpret
EVI:Definite:continuum in a definite but arbitrary manner. This arrangement does not
EVI:Project:*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK RELATIVITY: THE SPECIAL AND GENERAL THEORY ***
EVI:Fall:stone and produces its motion of fall. As we know from experience, the
SEQ:Works:Follow
EVI:Similarity:This four-dimensional “world” bears a close similarity to the
EVI:Definition:particular point of the train. Also the definition of simultaneity can
SEQ:Time:Objective
SEQ:Such:Gravitational
EVI:Systems:number of such systems of values, the co-ordinate values of which are
EVI:Answer:ground?” The usual answer to this question is: “Because it is attracted
SEQ:Give:Prominence
EVI:Embankment:respect to the body of reference[7] (here the railway embankment). We
REL:Bodies:Clocks
SEQ:Periodic:Returns
EVI:Shows:relativity. The development of theoretical physics shows, however, that
EVI:Conviction:following manner. Experience has led to the conviction that, on the one
SEQ:Characterise:Lorentz
REL:Means:Measurements
EVI:Case:interpretation of space- and time-data in the case of the general
SEQ:Meaning:Magnet
SEQ:Fields:Respects
SEQ:About:Uncounted
SEQ:Things:Thus
EVI:Here:each other. Here the Gaussian coordinates are simply Cartesian ones. It
SEQ:Detail:First
SEQ:Bodies:Every
CON:Predicted
EVI:Work:to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
SEQ:Conceive:Relation
SEQ:Radii:Centre
CON:Generalisation
EVI:Appears:so easy as it appears at first sight.
SEQ:According:Quite
EVI:Probability:which have little probability, and which were devised solely for this
EVI:Unique:unique in possessing the property that all points on it are equivalent.
EVI:Money:any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
SEQ:Require:Reached
CON:Noble
EVI:Constrained:constrained to call the propositions of geometry “true.” Geometrical
SEQ:These:Beings
SEQ:Than:Respect
SEQ:Paid:User
SEQ:Circles:Judged
EVI:Stand:“space.” I stand at the window of a railway carriage which is
EVI:Addition:In addition, a second photograph of the same stars is taken when the
SEQ:Addition:Bodies
SEQ:Sends:Energy
EVI:Express:and by “jumps” (if he is not too pedantic). We express this property of
SEQ:Parts:Nowhere
EVI:Circumference:sphere-beings the circumference of a circle first increases with the
EVI:Follows:likewise be of arbitrary shape. It follows that a value of _u_ and a
SEQ:Direction:Still
REL:Forth:Paragraph
EVI:Measures:measures to make ourselves independent of the existence of marked
SEQ:Them:Nature
SEQ:System:Ordinates
EVI:System:the Gauss co-ordinate system is the (really unjustified) formal
EVI:Realise:this. For if they attempt to realise a straight line, they will obtain
SEQ:Xxiv:Euclidean
EVI:Dimensional:relative position of which in the four-dimensional continuum is given
EVI:Ascii:Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
EVI:Galileian:in a “Galileian” fashion under suitable choice of reference-body,
SEQ:Varies:Position
EVI:Relationship:referred. The resulting relationship takes for granted that the laws of
EVI:Directly:directly; the intensity and direction of the field at points farther
CON:Considered
EVI:Rods:measuring-rods, clocks and freely moving material points.
EVI:Invalidate:invalidate it, but without success. But E. Mach recognised it most
SEQ:United:Shall
EVI:Objection:systems _K_ and _K′_.[15] Newton saw this objection and attempted to
EVI:Works:electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
EVI:These:law of inertia. So that if we adhere to this law we must refer these
SEQ:Photograph:Distance
SEQ:More:Correctly
CON:Followed
SEQ:Most:People
SEQ:Relativity:Following
EVI:Gravitation:effect of gravitation. The results of observation have been collected
EVI:Equipped:an observer inside who is equipped with apparatus. Gravitation
EVI:Each:footpath the other. Each of the observers determines the position on
EVI:Field:gravitational field receive an acceleration, _which does not in the
EVI:Please:PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK
CON:Predictions
EVI:Mass:energy and the law of the conservation of mass these two fundamental
EVI:Royal:We are indebted to the [British] Royal Society and to the Royal
EVI:Existence:In the first place, we imagine an existence in two dimensional space.
SEQ:Also:Results
CON:Lightning
EVI:Ascribed:with things called “straight lines,” to each of which is ascribed the
EVI:Every:light is propagated in empty space. Every child at school knows, or
EVI:Physical:space, _i.e._ a physical non-equivalence of different directions. This
REL:Elect:Provide
SEQ:Well:Known
EVI:Time:(1) The time-interval (time) between two events is independent of the
SEQ:Different:When
SEQ:Exactness:Domain
SEQ:Essential:Significance
EVI:Characterise:Mathematically, we can characterise the generalised Lorentz
SEQ:Exclusion:Limitation
EVI:Small:differs from zero, however small may be that difference, then the
EVI:Same:according to the principle of relativity, be the same for the railway
SEQ:Chest:Transmits
SEQ:Lengths:Three
SEQ:Extent:Confirmation
SEQ:Field:Prevailing
EVI:Ordinates:continuum in an arbitrary manner to Gauss co-ordinates. We assign to
SEQ:Position:Foot
EVI:Supplies:finite. In fact, the theory supplies us with a simple connection[25]
EVI:Relatively:body of the gravitational field prevailing relatively to _K_. It is
EVI:Gravitational:THE GRAVITATIONAL FIELD
EVI:Computers:computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
SEQ:Returning:Illustration
EVI:Arrangement:continuum in a definite but arbitrary manner. This arrangement does not
EVI:Those:and Bachem (Bonn), as a result of their own measurements and those of
EVI:Hence:But from what has been said, the two snapshots must be identical; hence
SEQ:Opportunities:Problem
SEQ:Apply:Postulate
EVI:Application:If we confine the application of the theory to the case where the
EVI:Kind:special kind. This hope has been realised in the most beautiful manner.
EVI:Slab:that the marble slab is a “Euclidean continuum.” This can be done in a
EVI:Remained:perihelial movement of the orbit of Mercury remained over, the amount
CON:Vacuo
EVI:Learn:generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
EVI:Simply:reference in our statement of the motion taking place. If it is simply
EVI:Common:common-place statement than that the world in which we live is a
EVI:Components:satisfactory manner. The rectangular components of the observed and of
SEQ:Existing:Trajectory
EVI:Between:co-ordinate system _K′_. In this connection the relation between the
REL:Sense:Euclidean
EVI:Copyright:by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
REL:Statement:Expressed
EVI:Starting:according to the rules of geometry; then, starting from _A_, we can
EVI:Results:reference-body as regards the domain considered, and the results of the
EVI:Apart:apart. We already know that it is necessary to have a body of reference
REL:Series:Manipulations
CON:Understanding
SEQ:Positions:Ground
EVI:Protected:do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
EVI:Interpreted:motion is physically unique. This result was interpreted physically by
EVI:Following:By making use of the following modification of this abstract
EVI:Large:from large stars, as compared with the corresponding lines for light
REL:Nobody:Refer
SEQ:Carriage:Embankment
EVI:Check:Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
SEQ:Those:Holding
SEQ:Consist:Negatively
EVI:Everywhere:which is everywhere the same and different from zero.
EVI:Principle:delicacy of detail little short of wonderful. The principle of
SEQ:Result:Contradictory
SEQ:Planet:Orbit
SEQ:Greater:Than
REL:Point:Mass
EVI:Express:we must then express _x′_ and _t′_ in terms of _x_ and _t_, making use
CON:Gross
EVI:Theory:THE STRUCTURE OF SPACE ACCORDING TO THE GENERAL THEORY OF RELATIVITY
EVI:Thing:satisfactory. According to this theory there is no such thing as a
EVI:Distance:carriage, traverses the same distance also with respect to the
SEQ:Argument:Favour
REL:Postulate:Relativity
SEQ:Reference:Embankment
SEQ:Exerted:Mercury
SEQ:Owns:United
EVI:Note:We must note carefully that the possibility of this mode of
EVI:Reference:different behaviour of bodies considered with respect to the reference
EVI:Delicacy:Mercury, this rotation is too small to be detected with the delicacy of
EVI:Called:with the much more comprehensive statement called “the principle of
SEQ:Expected:Astronomers
CON:Inexperienced
CON:Whenever
EVI:Adding:By adding (or subtracting) equations (3) and (4), and introducing for
SEQ:Fact:Empirical
EVI:Ensured:orbital ellipse was 43 seconds of arc per century, an amount ensured to
SEQ:Each:Them
SEQ:Special:Investigation
SEQ:Unless:Forces
SEQ:World:Radius
EVI:Finite:these beings is finite and yet has no limits._
EVI:Planet:orbit of the planet an ellipse, which is fixed with reference to the
EVI:Evolved:induction. Theories are evolved and are expressed in short compass as
EVI:Must:the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
EVI:License:of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
EVI:Relativity:hand, the principle of relativity holds true and that on the other hand
SEQ:Field:Exists
CON:Railway
SEQ:Itself:Without
SEQ:Distances:Force
EVI:Body:body (body of reference) with which that event or object coincides.
SEQ:Included:Thus
EVI:Other:relativity, on the other hand, by application of _arbitrary
EVI:Themselves:outside of this plane: that which they observe to happen to themselves
SEQ:Large:Value
EVI:Respect:(_i.e._ “really”)with respect to _K0_. In the general laws of nature
EVI:Accented:and similarly for the accented system _K′_, then the condition which is
SEQ:Clocks:Means
EVI:Relativity:Finally, the general principle of relativity permits us to determine
SEQ:Some:Circumstance
EVI:Gutenberg:(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
SEQ:Centre:Course
EVI:Feel:this, we feel compelled at the present juncture to grant a kind of
EVI:Should:and to the co-ordinate system. Should we be justified in saying that
SEQ:However:Anxiety
EVI:Where:where _g_11, _g_12, _g_22, are magnitudes which depend in a perfectly
EVI:Gravitational:domains, _i.e._ to those in which no gravitational field exists. In
CON:Order
EVI:Common:the latter, or, more correctly, round the common centre of gravity of
REL:Kinds:Transformations
EVI:Whatever:(formulation of the general laws of nature), whatever may be their
SEQ:Adjacent:Values
EVI:Whilst:whilst he is riding on ahead of the beam of light coming from _A_.
EVI:Away:whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
EVI:Physics:space, physics becomes, as it were, an “existence” in the
EVI:Most:Principe (West Africa)—and sent several of Britain’s most celebrated
EVI:Body:moving with the body.
SEQ:Known:These
EVI:Start:Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
EVI:Efforts:Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
EVI:Order:determine the length of the pole we should have required in order to
SEQ:Cause:Rise
SEQ:Formulation:General
EVI:Being:theory of relativity. As being of particular importance, I mention here
EVI:Ordinate:co-ordinate systems are essentially equivalent for the formulation of
SEQ:Metre:Rigid
EVI:Spectral:displacement of spectral lines be definitely traced to the
EVI:Velocity:ray will be transmitted with the velocity _c_ relative to the
EVI:Statement:request to explain to me the sense of the statement more precisely, you
SEQ:States:Most
CON:Wonderful
EVI:Given:[9] A simple derivation of the Lorentz transformation is given in
SEQ:Expressed:Last
CON:Nothing
SEQ:Magnitudes:Given
EVI:Surface:case in which the points of the surface considered form a Euclidean
SEQ:Naturally:Coincides
REL:Correspond:Positions
SEQ:Astronomical:Result
SEQ:Heuristic:Search
EVI:Governs:removed from the body are thence determined by the law which governs
SEQ:Relativity:Constancy
EVI:Implied:OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
EVI:Give:that these propositions are true?” Let us proceed to give this question
EVI:Space:three space co-ordinates. Formally, these four co-ordinates correspond
EVI:Through:These _u_-curves must not intersect each other, and through each point
SEQ:Readable:Form
CON:Evinced
REL:Laws:Galilei
EVI:Theory:theory, with which we shall deal later. In the following pages we shall
EVI:Active:1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
EVI:Differing:such a nature that numerical values differing very slightly from each
SEQ:Introduce:Following
EVI:Maintenance:require any external agency for its maintenance, _e.g._ in the case
EVI:Hypotheses:Both these hypotheses proved to be consistent, according to the general
SEQ:Transformations:Special
SEQ:Interpretation:Electromagnetic
SEQ:Motion:Amount
EVI:Itself:field itself. Let us consider this for a moment.
SEQ:Volunteers:Associated
EVI:Time:used before. Let us consider a space time domain in which no
EVI:Encounter:an encounter is expressed in the fact that the two lines which
EVI:Domain:Now let us refer this domain to a random Gauss coordinate system or to
EVI:Force:of force” which come from infinity and terminate in a mass m is
SEQ:Moving:Material
SEQ:Favour:Equation
SEQ:Diagram:When
EVI:Unique:K′_ is unique (lit. “specially marked out”) as compared with the other.
EVI:Earth:The action of the earth on the stone takes place indirectly. The earth
EVI:Valid:the conservation of energy, and is only valid provided that the system
CON:Ponder
EVI:Fact:first principles, without making use of the fact that the surface
SEQ:View:Train
CON:Largest
EVI:Express:We can express this as follows: The magnitude
SEQ:Have:Universe
EVI:Ultimately:surface would ultimately become infinite with increasing radius _R_ of
SEQ:Consequence:Prominent
SEQ:Constant:Small
EVI:Appeared:laws appeared to be quite independent of each other. By means of the
EVI:More:circle continues to increase more and more, until finally it becomes
EVI:Truth:observations, and it is just here that the “truth” of the theory lies.
SEQ:Maxwell:Electrodynamics
EVI:Then:their own accord, then this is an especial favour of the marble slab
SEQ:Foundation:Federal
SEQ:Answer:Following
EVI:Strokes:whether or not both the lightning strokes occurred simultaneously. As
EVI:Universe:universe has a finite area that can be compared with the area, of a
SEQ:Case:Laws
EVI:Arrangement:squares. The arrangement is such, that each side of a square belongs to
CON:Certain
SEQ:Radiation:Without
SEQ:Results:Observation
EVI:Works:Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
EVI:Direction:in any other direction whatsoever. Of cause this is not surprising,
REL:Stone:Produces
SEQ:Wish:Understand
SEQ:Distribute:United
SEQ:Relativity:Renders
SEQ:Compelled:Admit
EVI:Observation:observation. If we take our stand on the ground of classical mechanics,
SEQ:Result:Fact
EVI:Obtained:The Galilei transformation can be obtained from the Lorentz
SEQ:Great:Zeal
EVI:Theory:the fact that the theory of relativity enables us to predict the
EVI:Light:compared with the velocity of light. We have experience of such rapid
EVI:Body:which we may subject the body, the propositions of Euclidean geometry
SEQ:Round:Must
EVI:Unless:1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:
EVI:Axis:Two points of the _x′_-axis which are separated by the distance Δ_x′_ =
EVI:Nature:Section V that all attempts of this nature led to a negative result.
EVI:Considerations:If we apply quite similar considerations to light rays which are being
EVI:Considerations:Certain considerations suggest that we should refer the same Galileian
EVI:Reference:reference-body _K_. The behaviour of measuring-rods and clocks with
EVI:Prevent:claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
SEQ:Reference:Connection
SEQ:Strokes:Lightning
EVI:Have:relativity,” which we have taken as the basis of our investigations.
EVI:Body:body towards the floor of the chest is always of the same magnitude,
SEQ:Days:Receiving
SEQ:Transformation:Valid
CON:Finiteness
EVI:Nevertheless:nevertheless, because in reality it assumes absolutely nothing about
EVI:Doubtless:clothes. Minkowski’s work is doubtless difficult of access to anyone
EVI:Whole:velocity _v_ to be continued across the whole of space, so that every
EVI:Meaning:be content to regard this as meaning that the magnet acts directly on
EVI:Physics:fashion, so that readers unfamiliar with physics may not feel like the
CON:Characterised
EVI:Along:travelling along the railway lines with the velocity _v_, and that its
CON:Formats
EVI:Respect:with respect to the original reference-body _K_. But the observer on
REL:Direction:Motion
EVI:Fundamental:plays a fundamental role in this theory. In Part II we shall see in
SEQ:Independent:Position
SEQ:Chest:Despite
SEQ:Other:Marked
SEQ:Hold:Reference
EVI:Both:both lengths being measured with the same rod, is, according to
EVI:Also:and (9), and hence also of (8) and (9). We have thus derived the
EVI:Only:Now in practice we can move clocks and measuring-rods only with
EVI:Such:In gravitational fields there are no such things as rigid bodies with
SEQ:Then:These
SEQ:Must:Warn
EVI:Mollusc:is at rest relatively to it as at rest, so long as the mollusc is
EVI:Second:Moreover, the considerations of Section VI are based on yet a second
SEQ:Itself:Call
CON:Dividing
CON:Decides
EVI:Three:This consists of three plane surfaces perpendicular to each other and
EVI:Distances:Newton’s law, in which he assumes that for great distances the force of
EVI:True:It is true that this important law had hitherto been recorded in
REL:Addition:Velocities
EVI:Geometrical:constrained to call the propositions of geometry “true.” Geometrical
EVI:Attempts:Section V that all attempts of this nature led to a negative result.
SEQ:Meet:Keep
SEQ:Raven:Flying
CON:Effort
EVI:Employed:THE THEOREM OF THE ADDITION OF VELOCITIES EMPLOYED IN CLASSICAL
CON:Restrictions
EVI:Nature:the nature of our specification of position. If, for instance, a cloud
SEQ:Knew:Light
CON:Sufficient
EVI:Consequence:sides of the fourth square are already laid, and, as a consequence, the
EVI:Identical:conservation of the mass of a system becomes identical with the law of
CON:Squares
EVI:Section:this connection the difficulty mentioned in Section XXX finds its
EVI:Theory:Source: Relativity: The Special and General Theory (1920)
SEQ:Every:Planet
EVI:Metrics:since calculations show that the metrics of surrounding space is
SEQ:Rigid:Theory
SEQ:Quite:Reliable
SEQ:Rotating:Uniformly
REL:Time:Leverrier
SEQ:Formulation:Must
EVI:Body:relative to a particular body of reference.
SEQ:Method:Used
EVI:Numbers:are provided with numbers in a corresponding manner, and they may
EVI:Refrain:Geometry ought to refrain from such a course, in order to give to its
SEQ:Then:Distance
EVI:Your:In your schooldays most of you who read this book made acquaintance
EVI:Towards:Mean displacements of lines towards the less refrangible end of the
SEQ:Copies:Works
EVI:Capable:that is capable of being obtained by the delicacy of observation
SEQ:Geometry:Universe
EVI:Process:But how does the man in the chest regard the Process? The acceleration
EVI:Apparent:The results of the last three sections show that the apparent
SEQ:Walking:Inside
SEQ:Following:Stars
SEQ:Plane:Something
SEQ:Laws:Classical
EVI:Relativity:Moreover, according to the special principle of relativity, this
EVI:Able:_A priori_ it is quite clear that we must be able to learn something
EVI:Together:us) begins pulling at this with a constant force. The chest together
SEQ:Length:Metre
EVI:These:If we drop these hypotheses, then the dilemma of Section VII
EVI:Identical:manner. We imagine two clocks of identical construction; the man at the
EVI:Copied:copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
SEQ:Field:Gravitation
SEQ:Length:Directions
EVI:Localised:event, no matter how far off it may be, could also be localised with
EVI:Dependent:that this velocity of propagation is dependent on the direction “in
SEQ:Must:Quite
SEQ:Then:Remain
EVI:Achieved:no longer achieved merely by a process of arrangement. Guided by
SEQ:Sense:Should
REL:Volunteers:Financial
EVI:Holds:fixed stars are bodies for which the law of inertia certainly holds to
EVI:Towards:embankment) he is hastening towards the beam of light coming from _B_,
EVI:Moving:together with the mirrors, be moving relatively to the æther. And yet
EVI:Points:Since equation (8_a_) must hold for points on the _x_-axis, we thus
EVI:Respect:out the analogous consideration for a ray of light. With respect to the
SEQ:Find:Only
EVI:Hypothesis:Hypothesis (2) appeared unavoidable to me at the time, since I thought
SEQ:User:Notifies
EVI:Only:only I knew that the light by means of which the observer at _M_
SEQ:Indicate:Have
EVI:General:(_i.e._ “really”)with respect to _K0_. In the general laws of nature
SEQ:Agreement:Keeping
SEQ:Astronomers:Physicists
EVI:Reference:Galileian reference-body _K_, such a ray of light is transmitted
EVI:Universe:able to regard the geometry of their universe as being plane geometry
SEQ:Places:Where
EVI:Train:train. An event, wherever it may have taken place, would be fixed in
EVI:System:relative to every “Galileian” system of co-ordinates. In contrast to
SEQ:Basis:Measurement
EVI:Then:required, then both of these points are moving with the velocity v
EVI:Euclidean:from a Euclidean one, and this notion seems all the more probable,
SEQ:Gratefully:Accepted
SEQ:Direction:Development
SEQ:Time:Judged
EVI:Rods:rigid measuring-rods performed according to the rules and methods laid
SEQ:Beginning:Coincides
EVI:Frequently:We start off again from quite special cases, which we have frequently
EVI:Existence:Let us consider now a second two-dimensional existence, but this time
EVI:Respect:with respect to the “Galileian space” first considered, we can
CON:Deviations
REL:Impossible:Build
SEQ:Keeping:Work
SEQ:Revealed:Statistical
EVI:Names:positions (possessing names) on the rigid body of reference. In the
SEQ:Universe:Also
REL:Access:Project
EVI:Equation:satisfy the equation
EVI:Disorder:necessarily come into disorder during the heating, because the little
EVI:Individual:sense. For it is composed of individual events, each of which is
EVI:Nothing:space means nothing else than that we imagine an epitome of our “space”
REL:Predictions:Theory
EVI:Every:at every position on the table. But our construction of squares must
EVI:Cartesian:Cartesian system of co-ordinates.
EVI:Finite:XXXI. The Possibility of a “Finite” and yet “Unbounded” Universe
EVI:Gutenberg:Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread
CON:Reasons
EVI:Certainty:perhaps this feeling of proud certainty would leave you immediately if
EVI:Pedantic:and by “jumps” (if he is not too pedantic). We express this property of
SEQ:Equipped:Expeditions
EVI:Gutenberg:Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
EVI:Something:matter as being something that is known. We know from experience that,
EVI:Light:here replaced by the velocity of light relative to the embankment. _w_
EVI:Like:consideration behave more nearly like a Euclidean system, the smaller
CON:Reality
EVI:Before:even if I have never before seen a gas flame. For I can only say that
SEQ:Chosen:Ordinate
SEQ:Introduction:Particular
SEQ:Works:Calculated
EVI:Archive:Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
CON:Removing
SEQ:Remain:Permanently
CON:Notion
SEQ:Special:Theory
SEQ:Body:Attached
SEQ:Quite:Settled
EVI:Same:standing in the chest in exactly the same way as anyone stands in a
SEQ:Bodies:Same
EVI:Book:Since the publication of the first edition of this little book, our
EVI:Conceptions:Geometry sets out from certain conceptions such as “plane,” “point,”
EVI:Question:It is an open question whether or not this effect exists, and at the
EVI:Contintium:contintium—accordance with the special theory of relativity—as a
CON:Likely
EVI:Then:facts, supplies us then with that particular law of motion which has
EVI:Satisfying:proportional to it. Under these conditions, the natural laws satisfying
CON:Assumed
EVI:Being:strike you as being very singular, and for that reason I shall now draw
EVI:Ordinate:to a “rotation” of the co-ordinate system in the four-dimensional
EVI:Must:nature; the laws themselves must be quite independent of the choice of
EVI:Conclude:From this we conclude that in the theory of relativity the velocity _c_
EVI:System:The use of the C.G.S. system in this equation gives 2/k = 1.08 x 1027;
SEQ:States:Have
CON:Hitherto
EVI:Special:Source: Relativity: The Special and General Theory (1920)
EVI:Continuum:AS A EUCLIDEAN CONTINUUM
EVI:Tested:fixed stars. This deduction, which can be tested with great accuracy,
CON:Flashes
SEQ:Instance:Embankment
EVI:Cannot:able to show that the velocity of propagation of light cannot depend on
SEQ:Lines:Same
CON:Supposition
EVI:Exactly:exactly the same manner in a gravitational field (_in vacuo_), when
EVI:Rather:sphere rather than on another closed surface. But this choice has its
EVI:Obviously:continua. For example, this obviously holds in the case of the marble
EVI:Newton:Now φ = – _K (M/r)_, where _K_ is Newton’s constant of gravitation, and
EVI:More:ideas correspond to more or less exact objects in nature, and these
EVI:Fulfill:magnitudes always fulfill the condition.[21]
SEQ:More:Complicated
EVI:Neighbour:by its dark neighbour. By means of similar considerations based on
EVI:Path:_A_ → _M_ as for the path _B_ → _M_ is in reality neither a
SEQ:Relative:Galileian
EVI:Case:distance sun-planet exhibits periodic variations; but in this case the
CON:Containing
SEQ:Motion:Chosen
EVI:Four:“world” in a formal manner as a four-dimensional Euclidean space (with
SEQ:Against:General
EVI:Extent:influenced only to an exceedingly small extent by masses even of the
EVI:Possible:gravitational field is of a kind that would not be possible on Newton’s
EVI:Definition:is fulfilled in an actual case. We thus require a definition of
SEQ:Considered:Shall
CON:Exactness
EVI:Practice:scarcely likely to arise as to its applicability in practice.
SEQ:Fixed:Stars
EVI:Contrast:considered in Section XXIV. In contrast to ours, the universe of these
CON:Priori
EVI:Contraction:nor any experiment with which to demonstrate it. Here the contraction
EVI:Necessarily:would necessarily be scattered under the influence of their mutual
EVI:Namely:simultaneity, namely, that in every real case it must supply us with an
SEQ:Must:Equal
CON:Compasses
CON:Bounds
SEQ:Hope:Success
SEQ:Possible:Answer
EVI:Frameworks:error, we can disregard the fact that in reality these frameworks would
EVI:Never:surprised at this, even if I have never seen either a gas range or a
SEQ:Propositions:Satisfied
SEQ:Says:Something
SEQ:Made:Measuring
EVI:Until:farther until he is fully convinced on this point.)
EVI:Time:_K_, we introduce new space-time variables _x′, y′, z′, t′_ of a
EVI:Transformation:shows that we are able to construct the Lorentz transformation in this
EVI:Such:resulted in physicists becoming convinced that there are no such things
SEQ:Attached:Carriage
SEQ:Independent:Condition
EVI:Travel:How quickly does it travel in the direction of the arrow in the tube
SEQ:Full:Extent
EVI:Interpret:will interpret the condition of things thus: “The rope must perforce
SEQ:Small:Gravitational
EVI:Lorentz:experience. Guided by purely formal points of view, H. A. Lorentz was
EVI:Obtain:by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person
EVI:Across:velocity _v_ to be continued across the whole of space, so that every
EVI:Doppler:of light (Doppler principle). The experimental arguments in favour of
EVI:Position:position of practically rigid bodies.[1] Geometry which has been
SEQ:Theory:Supplies
EVI:Experience:phenomena connected with moving bodies show that experience in this
CON:Defining
EVI:System:amount are assigned to adjacent points. The Gaussian coordinate system
SEQ:Body:Clock
SEQ:Fundamental:Results
SEQ:Manner:Gravitational
EVI:Only:only in the sense of Doppler’s principle, as an expansive motion of the
EVI:Always:always choose another reference-body such that _no_ gravitational field
EVI:Societies:Joint Committee of the Royal and Royal Astronomical Societies, the
EVI:Somewhat:somewhat greater distance from the centre of the sun than corresponds
EVI:Bodies:than 1, since, according to Section XII, moving bodies suffer a
SEQ:Eventually:Habit
EVI:Website:to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website
SEQ:Deal:Shall
EVI:Electronic:access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
EVI:Considerations:considerations, was the _special_ principle of relativity, _i.e._ the
SEQ:Reason:Known
REL:Description:Natural
REL:Specification:Place
REL:Genesis:Those
SEQ:Such:Event
SEQ:Originally:Considered
EVI:Ratio:surface, the ratio of the circumference of a circle to its diameter,
SEQ:Point:Virtue
SEQ:Event:Reading
EVI:Therefore:train as their reference-body must therefore come to the conclusion
EVI:Theory:to the theory of relativity, the “time” _x_4, enters into natural laws
SEQ:Identically:Constructed
SEQ:Sense:Speak
CON:Included
EVI:Theory:case. We can only conclude that the special theory of relativity cannot
SEQ:Possible:Obtain
SEQ:These:Ideas
SEQ:Section:Denote
SEQ:Devised:Solely
SEQ:Radius:Universe
SEQ:Flame:Only
EVI:Analogy:analogy, namely, the three-dimensional spherical space which was
SEQ:Phrase:Project
SEQ:Ahead:Beam
SEQ:Supplied:Arrangement
EVI:Last:last are undoubtedly the exclusive cause of the genesis of those ideas.
EVI:Finite:THE POSSIBILITY OF A “FINITE” AND YET “UNBOUNDED” UNIVERSE
SEQ:Free:Points
REL:Perihelion:Mercury
EVI:Abscissa:abscissa _x′_ and the time _t′_. We require to find _x′_ and _t′_ when
CON:Luminous
EVI:Domain:claim an unlimited domain of validity; its results hold only so long as
CON:Opposes
EVI:Possible:The present book is intended, as far as possible, to give an exact
EVI:Connection:Section XIII in connection with the experiment of Fizeau, the result of
EVI:Might:is always only an _apparent_ one. We might also think that, regardless
EVI:However:to the embankment. As a natural consequence, however, the following
SEQ:Points:Reference
EVI:Relativity:the special theory of relativity. In this connection we proceed in
CON:Electric
CON:Lead
EVI:Theoretically:theoretically the influence of a gravitational field on the course of
EVI:Then:If _K_ is a Galileian co-ordinate system. then every other co-ordinate
EVI:Relativity:SPECIAL THEORY OF RELATIVITY UNSATISFACTORY?
SEQ:Small:Compared
SEQ:Basis:General
CON:Deletions
EVI:Section:in Section VI becomes invalid. The possibility presents itself that the
EVI:Correctness:examination of the correctness or otherwise of this deduction is a
EVI:Equality:THE EQUALITY OF INERTIAL AND GRAVITATIONAL MASS AS AN ARGUMENT FOR THE
EVI:Ordinates:described by four numbers, namely, three space co-ordinates _x, y, z_,
EVI:Eliminate:But if the snapshot be taken from _K′_(_t′_ = 0), and if we eliminate
CON:Heat
EVI:Reference:of energy should hold not only with reference to a co-ordinate system
EVI:Previous:We already know from our previous discussion that the behaviour of
SEQ:Result:Follows
SEQ:Shall:Only
EVI:Than:satisfactorily than without it, and this applies particularly to the
EVI:Rods:XXIII. Behaviour of Clocks and Measuring-Rods on a Rotating Body of Reference
CON:Front
CON:Coordinate
EVI:Less:will be somewhat less than the frequency of an atom of the same element
EVI:These:required, then both of these points are moving with the velocity v
SEQ:Tube:Plays
SEQ:Development:Species
CON:Honestly
SEQ:Corresponds:Influence
SEQ:Ensuring:Project
EVI:Point:“counter-point” to the starting point. Under such conditions they have
SEQ:Abandon:Either
EVI:Reason:(at rest). For this reason it is not possible to obtain a reasonable
SEQ:Term:Does
SEQ:Committee:Royal
EVI:Continuum:EUCLIDEAN AND NON-EUCLIDEAN CONTINUUM
CON:Mathematical
EVI:Constructions:In particular, the constructions of plane Euclidean geometry can be
CON:Radiate
CON:Complete
EVI:Theory:Part I: The Special Theory of Relativity
SEQ:Fields:Appreciably
EVI:After:system of co-ordinate values, _x_1, _x_2, _x_3, _x_4, in common. After
EVI:Field:into the field equations of gravitation, if one was ready to drop
EVI:Indefinitely:indefinitely small amount from those of the event _x, y, z, t_
CON:Belongs
SEQ:Such:Surprises
SEQ:Light:Gravitational
SEQ:Embankment:Second
EVI:Chosen:respect to the body of reference chosen in the particular case in
EVI:Possessing:positions (possessing names) on the rigid body of reference. In the
EVI:Rests:interpretation rests on the fundamental property of the gravitational
SEQ:Space:Event
SEQ:Embankment:First
SEQ:Illustration:Readily
CON:Excellent
EVI:Taking:reference in our statement of the motion taking place. If it is simply
EVI:Access:active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
EVI:Remarkable:exhibits a most remarkable property, which is of fundamental importance
EVI:Newton:gravitational field is of a kind that would not be possible on Newton’s
SEQ:Means:Framework
EVI:Fundamental:disagreement between these two fundamental results of experience? This
SEQ:Single:Proposition
SEQ:Propagation:Light
SEQ:Begins:Pulling
EVI:Reference:For this reason non-rigid reference-bodies are used, which are as a
EVI:Minkowski:The analogy with (12) is a complete one. We can regard Minkowski’s
EVI:When:the clock goes more slowly than when at rest. Here also the velocity
EVI:Depicted:situation depicted here corresponds to the one brought about by the
EVI:Equations:_t_ from the equations (5), taking into account the expression (6), we
SEQ:Notice:Indicating
EVI:Means:reaches the cloud has not been erected. By means of optical
SEQ:Transmission:Light
EVI:When:form, which renders it yet more clearly intelligible than it is when in
CON:Expect
SEQ:Table:Spread
EVI:Description:The following statements hold generally: Every physical description
EVI:Rotates:ellipse rotates round the sun in the same sense as the orbital motion
SEQ:Identify:Copyright
REL:Rods:Clocks
EVI:Present:attainable at the present time. The sole exception is Mercury, the
EVI:Hands:(position of the hands) of that one of these clocks which is in the
EVI:Attracts:medium. If, for instance, a magnet attracts a piece of iron, we cannot
SEQ:Embankment:Hastening
SEQ:Dimensions:Supposed
SEQ:Justifiably:Believed
EVI:Velocity:velocity of light _c_. The velocity must therefore always remain less
CON:Lieu
SEQ:Initial:Stages
REL:Continues:Increase
SEQ:Also:Discuss
SEQ:Whole:Universe
SEQ:State:Uniform
EVI:Plane:outside of this plane: that which they observe to happen to themselves
SEQ:Motion:Other
EVI:Those:indefinitely small amount from those of the event _x, y, z, t_
SEQ:Theory:Part
EVI:Magnitudes:equations of transformation, for the magnitudes _z, y, x, t_, are
CON:Gravitationial
SEQ:Lead:Despite
EVI:Links:Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
EVI:Above:in consequence of what we have seen above.
SEQ:Alongside:Clock
SEQ:Relativity:Appeals
EVI:Electronic:Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
CON:Observed
EVI:Objection:to a second objection which must be raised against the apparently
SEQ:Must:Raised
EVI:Propagation:the velocity _c_, the propagation relative to the system _K′_ will be
REL:Answer:Self
CON:Stated
SEQ:Showed:Special
REL:Conservation:Mass
EVI:Must:theory of relativity must yield important results on the laws of
SEQ:Inside:Equipped
SEQ:Attain:Greatest
SEQ:Vague:Word
EVI:Classical:VI. The Theorem of the Addition of Velocities employed in Classical Mechanics
EVI:Works:Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
SEQ:Universe:Obtain
SEQ:Thus:Good
SEQ:Centre:Group
SEQ:Defined:Unit
EVI:Velocity:the velocity of motion of the body emitting the light. The assumption
EVI:Idea:important idea contributed by Minkowski. Without it the general theory
EVI:Means:indicated in the diagram (Fig. 2), this problem is solved by means of
EVI:Movement:experience. We refer to the yearly movement of the apparent position of
EVI:Just:an example of a two-dimensional continuum. Just as it was there
CON:Weight
EVI:Familiar:the one by the other, he will not obtain as quotient the familiar
EVI:Part:Part II: The General Theory of Relativity
EVI:Equation:Moreover, according to this equation the time difference Δ_t′_ of two
SEQ:Things:Project
EVI:Move:masses move with respect to the coordinate system with velocities which
SEQ:Reasonable:Copies
SEQ:Behaviour:Rods
EVI:Outwards:displaced radially outwards (away from the centre of the sun) by an
SEQ:Three:Sections
SEQ:Other:Direction
SEQ:Time:Interval
CON:Continue
SEQ:Marking:Measuring
EVI:Euclidean:hold for these from those resulting on the basis of Euclidean plane
SEQ:Russian:Mathematician
EVI:Though:which appears as though it must be decisive. Imagine two mirrors so
EVI:Than:detecting the effect of temperature than the geometrical behaviour of
CON:Sphere
EVI:Project:redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
EVI:Before:pan before. But if I now notice a luminous something of bluish colour
CON:Described
SEQ:Railway:Carriage
EVI:Maxwell:Faraday-Maxwell interpretation of electromagnetic action at a distance
EVI:Including:computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
EVI:Angle:angle described by the line joining sun and planet during such a period
CON:Advent
EVI:Ought:state of motion. But before proceeding farther, it ought to be pointed
EVI:Kind:of _x, y, x, t_, of such a kind that the relation
EVI:Over:equations which express the general laws of nature pass over into
EVI:Where:where _du_ and _dv_ signify very small numbers. In a similar manner we
EVI:Discussing:of the method used in discussing the special theory, and as long as the
SEQ:Process:Justification
CON:Appendixes
EVI:Results:forth in the following table of results:
SEQ:Bodies:Clocks
SEQ:Portion:Surface
CON:Away
EVI:Have:have been made, their lengths being small compared with the dimensions
EVI:Investigate:The next step is to investigate the space-time behaviour of the
EVI:Also:the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
EVI:Sphere:with the radius _R_ of the “world-sphere.” By means of this relation
EVI:Take:question should take place—as judged from _K′_—in accordance with the
SEQ:Arises:Have
CON:Lattice
CON:Supplementing
SEQ:Permits:Determine
EVI:Property:and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
EVI:Modification:other half by the geometrical modification (“curvature”) of space
EVI:Volunteers:accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
EVI:Gutenberg:Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
SEQ:World:Live
SEQ:Point:Naturally
SEQ:Dimensions:Done
EVI:Regarded:gravitational fields can be regarded as being weak, and in which all
EVI:Motionless:Light travels in a motionless liquid with a particular velocity _w_.
SEQ:Appeared:Quite
EVI:Then:then resolve themselves into propositions on the possible relative
SEQ:Somewhat:Greater
EVI:Also:the clock goes more slowly than when at rest. Here also the velocity
EVI:Every:simultaneity, namely, that in every real case it must supply us with an
SEQ:Events:Know
SEQ:Body:Reason
EVI:Railway:comparable with a railway carriage travelling with a velocity of about
SEQ:Descend:Straight
EVI:Other:and the action of the other planets under consideration. Thus, if we
EVI:Part:Part I: The Special Theory of Relativity
SEQ:Archive:Online
EVI:Disregard:error, we can disregard the fact that in reality these frameworks would
SEQ:Bodies:Around
EVI:Rigid:state of motion,” cannot be maintained, because the use of rigid
EVI:Body:reference-body _K_. The behaviour of measuring-rods and clocks with
EVI:Differing:transformation, but, differing from classical mechanics, the _Lorentz
EVI:Reaction:of the chest will be transmitted to him by the reaction of the floor of
EVI:Online:ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
SEQ:Speaking:Such
EVI:Train:train. Let _M′_ be the mid-point of the distance _A_ → _B_ on the
EVI:Light:velocity of light always takes the place of instantaneous action at a
EVI:Outwards:stars ought to appear to be displaced outwards from the sun by an
EVI:Access:any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
SEQ:Imagine:Able
SEQ:Same:Thing
SEQ:Compilation:Copyright
EVI:Motion:conveys to us, every motion must be considered only as a relative
CON:Volunteer
SEQ:Light:Vacuo
SEQ:Values:Differing
SEQ:Return:Later
EVI:Interpret:that he can without reluctance interpret the facts of the case as
EVI:Only:motions only to systems of coordinates relative to which the fixed
EVI:Universe:universe will deviate in individual parts from the spherical, _i.e._
SEQ:Measurements:Obtainable
SEQ:Basis:Theory
CON:Maintains
EVI:Moving:then it will also be moving uniformly and in a straight line relative
EVI:Drawn:a system of arbitrary curves (see Fig. 4) drawn on the surface of the
EVI:Forms:motion here taking place in the following two forms, both of which are
SEQ:Reality:Uniform
SEQ:Fact:Recognition
EVI:These:(position of the hands) of that one of these clocks which is in the
SEQ:Answer:Must
EVI:Ideas:virtue of these ideas, we are inclined to accept as “true.” Then, on
EVI:Potzdammer:the “Potzdammer Platz, Berlin,” which is referred to in the original.
SEQ:Relativity:Given
SEQ:Time:Points
EVI:Owing:the alteration of the energy. It is owing to this circumstance that
EVI:Does:this condition of things. He asks: “How does it come that certain
SEQ:Electrodynamics:Limiting
EVI:Deductions:extent. But as regards the deductions from the theories which are
EVI:Works:copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
CON:Pleased
REL:System:Occasion
SEQ:Exception:Mercury
SEQ:Simultaneously:Cannot
REL:Laws:Nature
EVI:Light:_x_-axis, and this light-stimulus advances in accordance with the
SEQ:Coming:Interaction
EVI:Examine:theory would have been disproved. Let us now examine what general
EVI:Them:supplementing them by the relations
EVI:General:t′_, of a new reference-body _K′_. According to the general theory of
SEQ:Arise:Prime
CON:Ticks
CON:Fourth
EVI:Takes:moving with the velocity _v_. Hence we can say: If a body takes up an
EVI:Special:reference-bodies, in the sense of the method followed in the special
EVI:Necessary:necessary until we come to deal with the general theory of relativity,
EVI:Difference:differs from zero, however small may be that difference, then the
EVI:Attached:to a system of co-ordinates rigidly attached to the carriage, but
EVI:Framework:vertical direction by means of a framework of rods, so that an event
EVI:Notice:the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
EVI:Habit:space coordinates. It is for this reason that we have been in the habit
SEQ:Dimensional:Spherical
EVI:Theory:gravitational potential does not exist, then the general theory of
SEQ:Complying:Full
EVI:Particular:obtained here without any particular assumption, whereas Newton had to
EVI:Distance:the carriage, who traverses the distance _w per second_ relative to the
EVI:Accelerated:with respect to the accelerated reference-body _K′_ (chest). This
EVI:Holding:analogous to those holding in our three-dimensional measurements.
EVI:Provisions:remaining provisions.
EVI:Equality:long. To ensure the equality of the diagonals, we make use of a little
CON:Tied
REL:Place:Observation
EVI:Favour:favour of the theory of relativity, are too numerous to be set forth
SEQ:Sentence:Active
SEQ:Presumes:Standard
SEQ:Knowledge:Gravitational
EVI:Circle:sphere-beings the circumference of a circle first increases with the
EVI:Works:works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
SEQ:Clock:Rotating
EVI:Galileian:these bodies of reference are to be regarded as Galileian
SEQ:Already:Stated
CON:Designated
SEQ:Formulated:Only
CON:Inclusive
EVI:Ebook:*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK RELATIVITY: THE SPECIAL AND GENERAL THEORY ***
EVI:Fact:relation between _x′_ and _t′_. In point of fact, if we substitute for
EVI:Newtonian:with the Newtonian constant of gravitation.
EVI:Produced:way. Even though by no means all gravitationial fields can be produced
EVI:Quantitatively:quantitatively. A clock, which is situated at a distance r from the
EVI:Such:“counter-point” to the starting point. Under such conditions they have
EVI:Physical:same difficulty with all physical statements in which the conception
SEQ:Shall:Imagine
SEQ:According:Principle
EVI:Effect:large enough to effect the acceleration of the body. That which
EVI:When:[15] The objection is of importance more especially when the state of
CON:Flowing
EVI:Consideration:the continuum under consideration may be regarded as Euclidean
EVI:Uniformly:tenet thus: If, relative to _K_, _K′_ is a uniformly moving co-ordinate
EVI:Might:might also interpret his experience thus: “My body of reference (the
EVI:Orbital:ellipse rotates round the sun in the same sense as the orbital motion
EVI:Curve:parabolic curve. I now ask: Do the “positions” traversed by the stone
SEQ:Xviii:Certainly
CON:Warn
EVI:Individual:individual rods always represent the same distance, independently of
CON:Charge
EVI:Differ:adjacent clocks (in space) differ from each other by an indefinitely
EVI:Train:Our train of thought in the foregoing pages can be epitomised in the
REL:Relative:Other
SEQ:Place:Metre
SEQ:Laws:Founded
EVI:Velocity:the embankment through a distance _v_ equal numerically to the velocity
SEQ:These:Lines
SEQ:Body:Earth
EVI:Distance:observer placed at the mid-point M of the distance _AB_. This observer
EVI:Direct:A direct comparison of this relation with experiment is not possible at
SEQ:Electronically:Person
EVI:Considerations:Moreover, the considerations of Section VI are based on yet a second
EVI:Test:This result admits of an experimental test by means of the photographic
EVI:Express:express this by saying that by the “truth” of a geometrical proposition
REL:Circle:Least
CON:Foundation
SEQ:Useful:Idea
SEQ:Possible:Only
SEQ:Conflict:Considerations
SEQ:Respect:Embankment
SEQ:Great:Energies
SEQ:Empirical:Enterprise
EVI:Xxxii:IV. The Structure of Space According to the General Theory of Relativity (supplementary to section XXXII)
EVI:Judged:judged from the Galileian system, the length of this rod will be less
SEQ:Editions:Confirmed
SEQ:Withal:Realisation
SEQ:Time:Value
REL:Different:More
REL:Influence:Temperature
EVI:Pass:of the surface one and only one curve must pass. Thus a perfectly
SEQ:Statement:More
SEQ:Xxii:Inferences
SEQ:Beautiful:Manner
EVI:Only:a material point with any kind of motion. If this point had only a
EVI:Knows:believes he knows, that this propagation takes place in straight lines
EVI:Second:to a second Galileian system we shall suppose that the corresponding
EVI:Laws:for the formulation of natural laws, provided that they are in a state
SEQ:Extension:Result
SEQ:When:Produced
EVI:Eventually:because by the word “true” we are eventually in the habit of
SEQ:Part:Project
SEQ:Virtue:Latter
EVI:Galileian:rotation with regard to a Galileian system _K_, clocks of identical
EVI:Much:a two-dimensional geometry, just as much as for a plane surface. Gauss
REL:Embankment:Motion
SEQ:Work:Electronically
EVI:Principle:this is quite in accordance with the principle of relativity which
EVI:Result:revolution of the planet. Our result may also be stated as follows:
EVI:Theory:special theory of relativity hold relative to _K_. Let us suppose the
EVI:Able:of ingenious considerations an able meteorologist were to discover that
CON:Immense
EVI:Satisfactory:This conception is in itself not very satisfactory. It is still less
EVI:Established:spectrum was definitely established by Adams in 1924, by observations
SEQ:Effect:Seen
SEQ:Deviations:According
SEQ:Escape:Detection
SEQ:Pure:Geometry
SEQ:Energy:Only
CON:Confine
EVI:Terms:the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
EVI:Under:coincide for observation with one eye, under suitable choice of our
EVI:Changes:although the carriage changes its position relative to the embankment
EVI:Particular:the rod lie with respect to _K_ at a particular time _t_ of the system
EVI:System:In Section XXIII it has been shown that in a system _K′_ which is in
EVI:Since:inexperienced in mathematics, but since it is not necessary to have a
SEQ:Body:Ordinate
SEQ:Manifests:Itself
SEQ:About:Geometrical
SEQ:Gutenberg:Electronic
CON:Months
EVI:Motion:latter is in motion with reference to other bodies or not. The velocity
SEQ:Unique:Result
SEQ:Light:Relative
EVI:Respect:with respect to _K_. If _v_0, represents the number of ticks of the
EVI:Average:the average everywhere the same. In other words: However far we might
SEQ:Between:Space
REL:Diminishes:Zero
EVI:Truth:the present we shall assume the “truth” of the geometrical
SEQ:Chosen:Then
EVI:Plane:spherical surface differs only slightly from a piece of a plane of the
EVI:Indicate:electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
EVI:Fields:gravitational fields can be regarded as being weak, and in which all
SEQ:Ordinates:Fact
EVI:School:at school. Who would imagine that this simple law has plunged the
EVI:Here:here we shall have to deal in detail later.
SEQ:System:Chosen
SEQ:Other:Here
SEQ:Farther:Generalisation
CON:Eclipse
EVI:Literary:Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
EVI:System:system devoid of rotation, then natural phenomena run their course with
SEQ:Many:Fees
EVI:Quite:general theory of relativity, this does not disturb him; he is quite in
EVI:Material:measuring-rods, clocks and freely moving material points.
SEQ:Called:Question
CON:Disappears
EVI:Favour:their own accord, then this is an especial favour of the marble slab
EVI:Made:surface by means of a square made up of measuring-rods. If the universe
EVI:Extension:mass_ of the body.” Guided by this example, we see that our extension
REL:Interpretation:Electromagnetic
EVI:Exhibits:distance sun-planet exhibits periodic variations; but in this case the
EVI:Attached:same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
EVI:Whom:brilliant theoretical physicist L. Boltzmann, according to whom matters
EVI:Galilei:By means of the first and fourth equations of the Galilei
SEQ:After:Thinking
EVI:Performed:performed, viewed, copied or distributed:
SEQ:Certain:Simple
EVI:Bodies:geometry for rigid bodies.[20] The reader will notice that the
SEQ:Connection:Have
EVI:Part:possible to choose a Galileian reference-body for this part of space
SEQ:Combined:Analytical
EVI:Straight:function of a straight line. In the manner indicated in Section II we
SEQ:Infinitely:Dense
EVI:Space:instead of the real quantity _t_, we can regard the space-time
EVI:Validity:The validity of the Lorentz transformation follows from this condition.
SEQ:Have:Accustomed
SEQ:Part:General
SEQ:Continuum:Cannot
EVI:Another:several theories, which differ from one another to a considerable
SEQ:Chest:Longer
EVI:Where:you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
EVI:Relative:relative to every “Galileian” system of co-ordinates. In contrast to
SEQ:Distance:Measured
EVI:Ordinate:co-ordinate system _K′_. In this connection the relation between the
EVI:Discussed:discussed. The inherited prejudices about time and space did not allow
EVI:Consequence:in consequence of what we have seen above.
REL:Universe:These
EVI:Planet:of the planet. Theory requires that this rotation should amount to 43
EVI:Field:But since a gravitational field exists with respect to this new body of
CON:Respect
SEQ:Mass:Radius
REL:Spirit:Lucidity
SEQ:Regard:Everyone
EVI:Moving:clock is at rest, then the “rate” of the clock (_v_) when it is moving
EVI:Effort:considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
EVI:Fixed:simultaneously for different colours during the eclipse of a fixed star
EVI:Essential:We shall speak of its essential significance later.
SEQ:Reference:Those
SEQ:Reference:Statement
SEQ:Patience:Force
CON:Sides
EVI:Help:representation with the help of classical mechanics, there was no need
EVI:Originally:originally considered. That we have not been accustomed to regard the
EVI:Already:the special theory of relativity and to which we have already
SEQ:Cannot:Hold
SEQ:Time:Robbed
REL:According:Gauss
REL:Unable:Leave
SEQ:Systems:Indicated
EVI:Still:law, the motion would still take place in such a manner that the
SEQ:Following:Cause
EVI:Longer:are now no longer tenable. In that section we concluded that the man in
EVI:Have:experience, _i.e._ of experience that we can have in the movement of
EVI:Companion:on the dense companion of Sirius, for which the effect is about thirty
REL:Sense:Founded
SEQ:Manner:Making
SEQ:Seen:Direction
EVI:Different:attribute the different behaviour of the two pans.
EVI:Ordinates:in the same form as the space co ordinates _x_1, _x_2, _x_3.
EVI:Material:from other material particles continue to move uniformly in a straight
SEQ:Freely:Sharing
EVI:Meaning:PHYSICAL MEANING OF GEOMETRICAL PROPOSITIONS
SEQ:Other:Copies
EVI:Fixed:the fixed stars resulting from the motion of the earth round the sun
EVI:Unity:to unity. We then have the following law: The _gravitational_ mass of a
SEQ:Points:These
EVI:Respect:with respect to be embankment, we mean: the rays of light emitted at
EVI:Manner:manner. What are the values _x′, y′, z′, t′_, of an event with respect
SEQ:Reason:Result
EVI:Special:reference to _K_ is known from the special theory of relativity,
EVI:Gutenberg:*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK RELATIVITY: THE SPECIAL AND GENERAL THEORY ***
EVI:Body:rigidly attached to a rigid body. Referred to a system of co-ordinates,
SEQ:System:Velocities
EVI:System:length of the metre-rod relatively to the system _K_? In order to learn
SEQ:Limit:Theoretical
EVI:Along:sent along the embankment, we see from the above that the tip of the
SEQ:Arrive:Conclusion
CON:Brian
EVI:Closed:justification in the fact that, of all closed surfaces, the sphere is
CON:Powerless
EVI:What:It follows from what has been said, that closed spaces without limits
SEQ:Copyright:Restrictions
EVI:Presumes:of theoretical physics. The work presumes a standard of education
REL:Being:Particular
SEQ:Difficulty:Physical
EVI:Derivable:_not_ derivable from the Galileian special case, simply by means of a
CON:Elliptical
EVI:Gutenberg:Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
EVI:Connecting:along the rails, the connecting line _AB_ should be measured up and an
EVI:Hitherto:But there are two classes of experimental facts hitherto obtained which
EVI:Gutenberg:donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.
EVI:Must:arbitrary? The method of Cartesian coordinates must then be discarded,
EVI:Complete:complete that it becomes difficult to find any deductions in which the
EVI:Argument:is very powerful argument in favour of the principle of relativity.
SEQ:These:Molluscs
EVI:Numerical:such a nature that numerical values differing very slightly from each
SEQ:Centrifugal:Force
SEQ:Sphere:Beings
EVI:Rope:lid, and that he attaches a body to the free end of the rope. The
SEQ:Away:Angle
SEQ:Standing:Alongside
EVI:Associated:accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
EVI:Rods:impossible to construct a Cartesian co-ordinate system from equal rods,
EVI:Very:very much in favour of the validity of the principle of relativity.
EVI:Deductions:deductions from the theory which admit of being tested by observation,
EVI:Advances:science has emerged from its initial stages, theoretical advances are
EVI:Section:according to Section XXI the general theory of relativity cannot retain
EVI:Really:have σ = 1. It is easily seen that the Lorentz transformation really
SEQ:Like:Every
EVI:Mean:for this preference?_” In order to show clearly what I mean by this
EVI:Reaching:We have another instance of far-reaching agreement between the
REL:Terms:Always
EVI:Everyday:This applies not only to scientific description, but also to everyday
SEQ:Liquid:Plays
EVI:Velocity:with the same velocity _w with respect to the liquid_, whether the
EVI:Euclidean:universe cannot be quasi-Euclidean. On the contrary, the results of
SEQ:Names:Rigid
EVI:System:masses move with respect to the coordinate system with velocities which
EVI:Under:the continuum under consideration may be regarded as Euclidean
EVI:Maxwell:Maxwell in electrodynamics? Not in the least. Electrostatics is
EVI:Taking:motion here taking place in the following two forms, both of which are
EVI:Place:processes which take place according to known laws when a gravitational
EVI:Field:relative to _K_ (relative to _K′_ a gravitational field prevails).
SEQ:Next:Step
SEQ:Equation:Must
EVI:Ordinates:THE SYSTEM OF CO-ORDINATES
EVI:Refer:Now let us refer this domain to a random Gauss coordinate system or to
EVI:Heuristic:THE HEURISTIC VALUE OF THE THEORY OF RELATIVITY
CON:Correlates
EVI:Appear:stars ought to appear to be displaced outwards from the sun by an
SEQ:Work:Posted
SEQ:Forty:Years
CON:Repeat
EVI:Possibility:XXXI. The Possibility of a “Finite” and yet “Unbounded” Universe
CON:Extra
EVI:Donations:any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
EVI:Consider:difficulties? Let us consider how these difficulties arise.
EVI:Produces:assuming that the motion of the body relative to the æther produces a
EVI:Requires:theory rather requires that the universe should have a kind of centre
EVI:Temperature:“expand” by in amount proportional to the increase of temperature. We
EVI:Continue:motion continue permanently in uniform rectilinear motion. As
SEQ:Radius:During
EVI:Euclid:with the noble building of Euclid’s geometry, and you remember—perhaps
EVI:Gravitational:gravitation will be derivable from such gravitational fields of a
EVI:Disclaimer:agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
EVI:Deductive:deductive thought in the development of an exact science. As soon as a
EVI:Xxxii:(SUPPLEMENTARY TO SECTION XXXII)
SEQ:Without:Duration
EVI:Little:others; for any one of these laws would be founded just as little on
EVI:Body:principle immaterial to what reference-body we refer the motion. As
CON:Translation
SEQ:Commissioned:Determine
EVI:Towards:[27] The displacement of spectral lines towards the red end of the
EVI:Dimensional:four-dimensional continuum, are defined physically in a simple manner,
EVI:Field:body (_e.g._ the earth) produces a field in its immediate neighbourhood
EVI:Relative:(_a_) The carriage is in motion relative to the embankment,
EVI:Seems:seems to suggest that, for the present at any rate, there is little
SEQ:Only:Maintains
CON:Tacitly
SEQ:Carry:Business
SEQ:Rope:Must
EVI:Surface:a two-dimensional geometry, just as much as for a plane surface. Gauss
CON:Appropriately
SEQ:Distance:Marked
EVI:Described:such away, that the angle described by the radius sun-planet between
SEQ:Then:Inertial
CON:Picture
SEQ:Work:Binary
SEQ:Must:Chosen
EVI:Result:fifteenth re-printing of this book; and as a result is still under
SEQ:Elect:Provide
EVI:Quality:_The same_ quality of a body manifests itself according to
SEQ:Century:Planet
EVI:Derivation:SIMPLE DERIVATION OF THE LORENTZ TRANSFORMATION
CON:Continuity
SEQ:Always:Correspondence
CON:Infinity
EVI:Smaller:_i.e._ a smaller value than π, the difference being the more
EVI:Ordinates:the law of transformation for the rectangular co-ordinates _x, y, z_
EVI:Attraction:of attraction into the calculation, we find that, according to this new
SEQ:Relativity:Untenable
SEQ:Insert:System
SEQ:Carefully:Possibility
EVI:Newton:of Galilei-Newton can be regarded as valid only for a Galileian system
SEQ:Reader:Following
SEQ:Limiting:Velocity
EVI:Velocity:_M_ but it moves towards the right in the diagram with the velocity v
CON:Accompanying
SEQ:Longer:Given
EVI:Hold:does not hold, then the Galileian co-ordinate systems _K, K′, K″_,
EVI:Abstract:out that this formulation must be replaced later by a more abstract
EVI:Displacement:at the surface of the earth, the amount of this displacement being
REL:Able:Establish
EVI:People:and in the direction indicated in Fig 1. People travelling in this
SEQ:Large:Gravitational
EVI:Along:very long train travelling along the rails with the constant velocity v
CON:Supported
EVI:Magnitude:which have been formulated with reference to _K_, the magnitude and
SEQ:Pleased:Suggestion
SEQ:Being:Accelerated
REL:Result:Fundamental
EVI:Necessary:[4] It is not necessary here to investigate further the significance
SEQ:Really:Gone
REL:Embankment:Relative
SEQ:Squares:Arrangement
SEQ:Fixed:Externally
EVI:Special:special theory of relativity has crystallised out from the
SEQ:Nature:Obtained
EVI:Something:pan before. But if I now notice a luminous something of bluish colour
EVI:Possible:as four-dimensional Cartesian co-ordinates. This was possible on the
EVI:Given:another point: it is shown by calculation that for a given velocity _v_
CON:Bottomless
EVI:Results:universe cannot be quasi-Euclidean. On the contrary, the results of
SEQ:Form:Accessible
SEQ:Theory:Distinguish
CON:Discussed
SEQ:Light:Plays
SEQ:Gradually:Systematically
SEQ:True:Proceed
EVI:Squares:two squares and each corner to four squares.
EVI:Laws:any moment would enter into the laws of nature, and also that physical
EVI:Means:by means of classical mechanics only on the assumption of hypotheses
EVI:Chest:puzzled for a moment as to why the chest does not fall in this
SEQ:Subtle:Stipulation
SEQ:Finiteness:Space
SEQ:Designate:Relative
SEQ:Mysterious:Shuddering
CON:Unequivocally
EVI:Through:goes through two points. We can only say that Euclidean geometry deals
SEQ:Founded:Exclusively
EVI:Gutenberg:1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
EVI:Less:velocity of light _c_. The velocity must therefore always remain less
SEQ:Most:Countries
SEQ:Than:Energy
SEQ:Regard:Events
EVI:Time:high time that we remedy this defect; but I would mention at the
SEQ:Bodies:Rest
EVI:Relations:[21] Cf. Appendixes I and II. The relations which are derived there
SEQ:Specification:Basis
EVI:Relative:a state of uniform motion of translation relative to _K_, or, briefly,
CON:Retarded
EVI:Train:train as their reference-body must therefore come to the conclusion
REL:Results:Observation
SEQ:Provision:Agreement
EVI:Carriage:of bodies relative to the person in the railway carriage. The
EVI:Original:space-time variables _x, y, z, t_ of the original coordinate system
SEQ:Towards:Negative
SEQ:Interpreted:Since
EVI:Capable:should be constrained to believe that natural laws are capable of being
SEQ:Following:Consideration
EVI:Time:be assumed relative to the earth, and for a long time the efforts of
SEQ:Conflict:Between
SEQ:Required:General
SEQ:Motion:Different
SEQ:Imposed:Laws
SEQ:Galilei:Executing
SEQ:Stars:Situated
EVI:General:PART II: THE GENERAL THEORY OF RELATIVITY
CON:Enter
EVI:Hypothesis:hypothesis of the hereditary transmission of acquired characters.
EVI:Provided:to a second co-ordinate system _K′_ provided that the latter is
EVI:Light:indisputable. That light requires the same time to traverse the path
SEQ:Interpret:Experience
SEQ:Happen:Experiment
EVI:Should:angle of deflection (α) should amount to
EVI:Time:indisputable. That light requires the same time to traverse the path
SEQ:Differ:Each
CON:Prepare
SEQ:Cyanogen:Bands
SEQ:General:Theory
EVI:Velocity:where ω represents the angular velocity of rotation of the disc _K′_
SEQ:Second:Place
EVI:General:﻿The Project Gutenberg eBook of Relativity: The Special and General Theory
SEQ:These:Became
EVI:Formerly:combination and generalisation of the hypotheses, formerly independent
SEQ:Electrostatics:Looked
SEQ:Central:Region
EVI:Field:always choose another reference-body such that _no_ gravitational field
SEQ:Language:English
EVI:Magnitude:(2) The magnitude (“radius”) of space is independent of time.
EVI:Fact:experiment gave a negative result—a fact very perplexing to physicists.
EVI:System:planes” (“co-ordinate system”). A co-ordinate system _K_ then
EVI:Interval:measures the interval by marking off his measuring-rod in a straight
SEQ:Philosophical:Point
EVI:Very:very exact grasp of this work in order to understand the fundamental
SEQ:Place:Earlier
EVI:Universe:nature. Such a finite material universe would be destined to become
CON:Molluscs
SEQ:Principle:According
CON:Recognises
EVI:Hardly:There is hardly a simpler law in physics than that according to which
EVI:Points:Two points of the _x′_-axis which are separated by the distance Δ_x′_ =
EVI:Display:1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
EVI:Together:(_c_) Gravitational field and matter together must satisfy the law of
CON:Proved
EVI:Soon:general principle of relativity. But in what follows we shall soon see
EVI:Euclidean:Euclidean geometry of the plane, equal to a constant value π, which is
EVI:Myself:clearness, it appeared to me inevitable that I should repeat myself
EVI:Choice:sphere rather than on another closed surface. But this choice has its
CON:Behaves
EVI:Archive:The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
SEQ:Years:While
CON:Convincingly
EVI:Moves:_M_ but it moves towards the right in the diagram with the velocity v
EVI:Divided:the use of divided measuring-rods, the introduction of which does not
EVI:Naturally:“world” by Minkowski is naturally four dimensional in the space-time
CON:Water
SEQ:Apart:Events
EVI:Experimental:But there are two classes of experimental facts hitherto obtained which
EVI:Performed:_i.e._ the work, considered negatively, which must be performed on the
EVI:Gaussian:GAUSSIAN CO-ORDINATES
EVI:Mention:somewhat arbitrary one. We shall only mention that with its aid
SEQ:Euclid:Geometry
EVI:Thus:point, we thus have a (uni-dimensional) line in the four-dimensional
SEQ:Disc:Reference
CON:Star
EVI:Correctness:however, we shall assume its correctness.
SEQ:Planets:Under
SEQ:Intellectual:Property
SEQ:Possible:Newton
EVI:Variable:Thus, if we choose as time-variable the imaginary variable
SEQ:Important:Result
EVI:Hand:relativity will be untenable. On the other hand, if the cause of the
SEQ:Sign:Repel
SEQ:Does:General
EVI:Accordance:this is quite in accordance with the principle of relativity which
EVI:Fixed:motions only to systems of coordinates relative to which the fixed
EVI:Societies:material and a psychological nature aroused by the war, these societies
EVI:Perhaps:general theory of relativity, it is perhaps advisable to make the facts
SEQ:Electronic:Works
SEQ:Considerable:Measure
CON:Measure
EVI:Section:determined by applying the definition of time given in Section VIII.
REL:Doubt:Arise
EVI:Although:In the first place, it can be compared with the reality. Although a
EVI:Difficulty:Lorentz and FitzGerald rescued the theory from this difficulty by
CON:Source
SEQ:Orientation:Hence
SEQ:Point:Other
CON:Medium
CON:Maximum
EVI:Theory:For the sun, the displacement towards the red predicted by theory
SEQ:Ordinates:Surface
EVI:Thought:of our space without coming into conflict with the laws of thought or
SEQ:Emission:Observed
SEQ:Position:Clock
CON:Thinking
EVI:Time:[Note] The equation E = mc2 has been thoroughly proved time and again
SEQ:Measurements:Confirmed
SEQ:Euclidean:Three
EVI:Universe:order to perceive that they are not living in a Euclidean universe.
EVI:Continuum:In this case relations hold in the four-dimensional continuum which are
SEQ:Correct:Observed
EVI:Placed:observer placed at the mid-point M of the distance _AB_. This observer
SEQ:Schooldays:Most
SEQ:Granted:Laws
CON:Cyanogen
SEQ:Formulated:Particularly
REL:Judged:Three
SEQ:Velocity:Events
EVI:Theory:observations, and it is just here that the “truth” of the theory lies.
EVI:Centre:which passes the sun at a distance of Δ sun-radii from its centre, the
EVI:Forming:considerably reduced the number of independent hypotheses forming the
SEQ:Reality:These
CON:Heavenly
EVI:Result:of arc per century. The uncertainty of the empirical result amounts to
EVI:Direction:direction of the velocity of the carriage would necessarily play a
EVI:Centrifugal:an effect of inertia (centrifugal force) by an observer who was at rest
SEQ:Transcription:Text
EVI:Ordinate:Gaussian four-dimensional co-ordinate system chosen arbitrarily. That
EVI:Continuum:continuum. In the same way, any such lines in our continuum correspond
EVI:Spectral:which is emitting spectral lines as a clock, so that the following
EVI:Physicists:the best experimental physicists, so that there can be no doubt about
SEQ:Term:Required
CON:Standing
SEQ:Theoretical:Principles
EVI:Proportional:attracting material points is inversely proportional to the square of
SEQ:Decided:Approach
EVI:Drift:introduction of the æther-idea, and hence there can be no æther-drift,
CON:Appreciate
SEQ:Page:Gutenberg
EVI:Neither:neither case, and if I observe that the one continuously emits steam
EVI:Ordinate:corresponds to the embankment, and a co-ordinate system _K′_ to the
EVI:Simultaneity:IX. The Relativity of Simultaneity
EVI:Forces:repulsions, unless there are forces of another kind operating between
EVI:Number:increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
EVI:Jumps:point to point without executing “jumps.” I am sure the reader will
EVI:Merchantability:LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.
SEQ:Exact:Science
EVI:Thus:thus: A body removed sufficiently far from other bodies continues in a
EVI:Consideration:consideration behave more nearly like a Euclidean system, the smaller
SEQ:Means:Gauss
SEQ:Actual:Motions
EVI:Independent:of mass as a law of independent validity.
EVI:Disc:a disc which is at rest with respect to _K_, this operation would yield
EVI:Time:The next step is to investigate the space-time behaviour of the
SEQ:Hypothesis:Justifiable
EVI:United:This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
SEQ:Hubble:Showed
SEQ:Electromagnetic:Phenomena
SEQ:Termed:Galilei
EVI:Postulate:detour in order to be able to apply the postulate of general relativity
EVI:Transformation:We can characterise the Lorentz transformation still more simply if we
SEQ:Expression:Given
SEQ:Archive:Foundation
EVI:Then:If, then, the observer first measures the circumference of the disc
EVI:Negative:each other, the negative electrical masses constituting the electron
EVI:Allowed:co-ordinates which allowed of a simple and direct physical
SEQ:Fundamental:Importance
EVI:Understand:In contrast to this we wish to understand by the “general principle of
SEQ:Associated:Adjacent
EVI:Step:We advance a step farther in our generalisation when we express the
SEQ:Even:Give
SEQ:Gravitation:Derived
EVI:Euclidean:the possibility of the exact validity of Euclidean geometry in our
SEQ:Attribute:Length
CON:Approrimately
EVI:Such:Geometry ought to refrain from such a course, in order to give to its
CON:Magnitude
CON:Alone
SEQ:Difficulties:Observer
EVI:Independently:and independently of the positions of the scenes of the events with
EVI:Protect:Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
EVI:Reality:became evident that _in reality there is not the least incompatibilitiy
EVI:Equations:into the field equations of gravitation, if one was ready to drop
EVI:Relativity:*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK RELATIVITY: THE SPECIAL AND GENERAL THEORY ***
EVI:Definition:simultaneity such that this definition supplies us with the method by
SEQ:Thing:Equality
EVI:Whether:whether or not these displacements are to be referred in reality to the
EVI:Motion:significance, _i.e._ that it is independent of the state of motion of
SEQ:Instantaneous:Photograph
EVI:Continuum:world in this sense as a four-dimensional continuum is due to the fact
EVI:Possess:did not possess this velocity, then he would remain permanently at M,
EVI:Simultaneous:“simultaneous” plays a part. The concept does not exist for the
SEQ:Already:Know
EVI:Project:version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
SEQ:Observer:Railway
EVI:Here:shall leave it here at present, and revert to it only towards the end
EVI:Does:continuum in a definite but arbitrary manner. This arrangement does not
CON:Proportionally
SEQ:Electrodynamics:Laws
SEQ:Lorentz:Original
SEQ:Companion:Sirius
EVI:Calculate:The same value _v_ can be obtained from equations (5), if we calculate
EVI:Gutenberg:things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
EVI:Good:nevertheless regard the chest as being at rest. We have thus good
SEQ:Help:Preserve
EVI:Circles:point, they draw “straight lines” (arcs of circles as judged in three
SEQ:Expression:Coincidence
SEQ:Process:Propagation
REL:Variations:Temperature
EVI:Mass:question as to how the energy of a point-mass; depends on the velocity.
EVI:Ordinates:rigidly attached to a rigid body. Referred to a system of co-ordinates,
CON:Research
CON:Glance
EVI:Stated:We have already stated several times that classical mechanics starts
SEQ:Must:Draw
EVI:Ordinates:three numbers (co-ordinates) _x, y, z_, and that there is an indefinite
SEQ:Only:Those
SEQ:Stellar:System
EVI:Long:As long as one was convinced that all natural phenomena were capable of
EVI:Found:Minkowski found that the Lorentz transformations satisfy the following
SEQ:Each:Side
EVI:Outside:in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
EVI:Removed:itself and sufficiently far removed from all other particles moves
EVI:Equations:_x_ the value _ct_ in the first and fourth equations of the Lorentz
SEQ:Word:True
SEQ:Cannot:Maintained
SEQ:Stone:Descend
CON:Affects
EVI:Undertook:undertook the task of treating this two-dimensional geometry from
EVI:Simple:four-dimensional continuum, are defined physically in a simple manner,
EVI:Small:variations from the laws of classical mechanics are too small to make
SEQ:Riemann:Helmholtz
EVI:Consideration:obvious consideration of Section VI. Namely, if the man in the carriage
EVI:Foundations:IN WHAT RESPECTS ARE THE FOUNDATIONS OF CLASSICAL MECHANICS AND OF THE
SEQ:Body:Moving
EVI:Experience:able to hold its own when tested by experience.
SEQ:System:First
EVI:Question:in such a case, but I do not wish to go any farther into this question.
SEQ:Transformation:Given
SEQ:Question:Have
EVI:Doubt:to doubt the validity of this principle of relativity. But in view of
SEQ:Experience:Shortening
SEQ:Starting:Origin
EVI:Hold:Now assuming that the Maxwell-Lorentz equations hold for a
SEQ:Throwing:Then
SEQ:Than:Another
EVI:Times:character of times and lengths, then instead of the above we should
EVI:Compare:shall hardly be able to compare the results of the previous section
EVI:Relativity:But this result comes into conflict with the principle of relativity
EVI:Specified:Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
EVI:Line:angle described by the line joining sun and planet during such a period
EVI:Copies:to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
SEQ:Lake:City
SEQ:Comparison:Photographs
SEQ:Under:First
EVI:Maxwell:the Maxwell-Lorentz theory, which are at the same time arguments in
CON:Volume
EVI:Same:be given relative to the train in exactly the same way as with respect
SEQ:Transformation:Exactly
EVI:Axioms:follow from those axioms, _i.e._ they are proven. A proposition is then
EVI:Section:In Section VI we derived the theorem of the addition of velocities in
EVI:Body:two points on a rigid body by means of measurements. For this purpose
SEQ:Bodies:Inertia
SEQ:Life:Analyse
SEQ:System:Covers
SEQ:Joining:Them
EVI:Field:gravitational field in a purely theoretical manner. Let us suppose, for
REL:Root:Things
EVI:Shall:In accordance with the principle of relativity we shall certainly have
EVI:Very:measured with a little rod, by means of the very small number _ds_.
EVI:Permanent:and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
EVI:Foundation:Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
SEQ:Validity:Lorentz
EVI:Investigators:existence of the effect almost beyond doubt, while other investigators,
SEQ:Pulling:Constant
SEQ:Portion:Empty
SEQ:Valid:Only
EVI:Clock:less quickly, according to the position in which the clock is situated
CON:Freewill
EVI:Pages:Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
SEQ:Necessary:Here
EVI:Embankment:application of the measuring-rod along the embankment.
SEQ:Infinite:Space
EVI:Different:those possessing motion of a different kind). In this sense we speak of
EVI:Pglaf:Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
EVI:Have:We have already stated several times that classical mechanics starts
SEQ:Amongst:Possible
EVI:Involved:prime factor involved in this contraction we find, not the motion in
SEQ:Practice:Rigid
EVI:Confirmation:THE EXPERIMENTAL CONFIRMATION OF THE GENERAL THEORY OF RELATIVITY
EVI:Such:satisfactory. According to this theory there is no such thing as a
EVI:Quasi:the universe will be quasi-spherical. But it will be necessarily
EVI:Distribute:1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
REL:Distributed:Machine
SEQ:Physicists:Therefore
SEQ:Instance:Piece
EVI:Scarcely:scarcely likely to arise as to its applicability in practice.
EVI:Length:on the Square, so that it reaches the cloud. The length of the pole
EVI:Friend:transferred to our old friend the railway carriage, which is travelling
SEQ:Have:Just
EVI:Equations:The same value _v_ can be obtained from equations (5), if we calculate
EVI:Inertia:(electrons) of very small inertia and large velocity. By examining the
SEQ:Surface:Marble
SEQ:Reference:However
EVI:Matter:matter as being something that is known. We know from experience that,
EVI:Fundamental:mentioned in connection with the fundamental experiment of Fizeau. The
SEQ:Placed:Basis
EVI:Appears:assumption, which, in the light of a strict consideration, appears to
SEQ:Body:Part
EVI:First:under the first pan but not under the other, I cease to be astonished,
EVI:Years:been confirmed with great precision in recent years.
EVI:Basis:basis of the law of the constancy of the velocity of light. But
CON:Equipped
SEQ:Most:Important
SEQ:Values:Vary
EVI:Another:another direction. The development of non-Euclidean geometry led to the
CON:Neighbourhood
SEQ:Able:Interpret
EVI:Nothing:[2] Here we have assumed that there is nothing left over _i.e._ that
SEQ:Something:Bluish
EVI:Number:by means of a number. The Curves _u_ = 1, _u_ = 2 and _u_ = 3 are drawn
CON:Astronomers
REL:Number:Independent
SEQ:Common:Place
SEQ:Specially:Measure
SEQ:Unity:Third
SEQ:Much:Paperwork
SEQ:Spectral:Lines
SEQ:Suffering:Alteration
SEQ:Physics:Becomes
EVI:Decided:generally accepted by physicists even if experiment had decided less
EVI:Particular:Flat beings with flat implements, and in particular flat rigid
EVI:Same:_x′_2, _x′_3) with the same origin, then _x′_1, _x′_2, _x′_3, are
EVI:Direction:that this velocity of propagation is dependent on the direction “in
EVI:Ordinates:is it possible to associate the co-ordinates _x_1 . . _x_4. with the
SEQ:Ordinates:Assign
EVI:Body:transmitted to this body, and for this reason the body will approach
EVI:Comply:Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
SEQ:Permitted:Applicable
CON:What
EVI:Protected:works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
EVI:Respect:ray of light (and of course for every ray) with respect to _K_ and
EVI:Four:II. Minkowski’s Four-Dimensional Space (“World”) (supplementary to section XVII)
EVI:Attained:physics of measurement this is attained by the application of the
EVI:Walking:Galilei transformation (Section XI). In place of the man walking inside
CON:Additions
REL:Work:Posted
CON:Admits
SEQ:Rods:Indirect
SEQ:Greater:Radius
SEQ:Star:Seen
EVI:Establish:indicated, we are also in a position to establish the distance between
EVI:Application:there exists (during the period of application of the brakes) a
EVI:Derivable:gravitation will be derivable from such gravitational fields of a
EVI:Reason:space coordinates. It is for this reason that we have been in the habit
EVI:Hand:shortening in the direction of the motion. On the other hand, the
EVI:Observation:effect of gravitation. The results of observation have been collected
SEQ:Particle:Left
EVI:Gaussian:To every point of a continuum are assigned as many numbers (Gaussian
SEQ:Transformation:Still
EVI:Point:man walking along the carriage, or of the moving point in the present
EVI:Patience:despite the shortness of the book, a fair amount of patience and force
SEQ:Clear:Galileian
CON:Brilliant
SEQ:Another:Direction
SEQ:Closest:Proximity
SEQ:Hold:Generally
SEQ:Position:Practically
SEQ:Creating:Works
EVI:Dimensional:analogous to those holding in our three-dimensional measurements.
EVI:Propagation:taking into account the properties of the propagation of light, we
EVI:Galileian:Galileian reference-body _K_, such a ray of light is transmitted
EVI:Later:earlier or later. As compared with the standard photograph, the
SEQ:Curvature:Path
EVI:Description:reference-body for the description of any event (for this, too, is
EVI:Send:where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
EVI:Relativity:EXPERIENCE AND THE SPECIAL THEORY OF RELATIVITY
EVI:Sure:followed the preceding discussion are almost sure to expect that we
SEQ:Work:Format
SEQ:Diagonals:Equal
CON:Galilei
SEQ:Performed:According
EVI:Logical:to objects of experience, but only with the logical connection of these
REL:Being:Immaterial
SEQ:Appearing:Work
SEQ:Geometry:Hold
EVI:Quickly:rest, and the more quickly it is moving, the shorter is the rod. For
EVI:Consideration:consideration which borrowed two unjustifiable hypotheses from
SEQ:Occupant:Carriage
EVI:Work:1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
SEQ:Agency:Maintenance
CON:Getting
CON:Helmholtz
SEQ:Data:Transcription
SEQ:Fields:Gravitational
EVI:Giving:field of giving all bodies the same acceleration, or, what comes to the
SEQ:Relative:When
EVI:Lies:of gravity, lies in one of the foci of the orbital ellipse in such a
SEQ:Physical:Definition
EVI:Need:But the spherical-surface beings do not need to go on a world-tour in
EVI:Beginning:beginning of this work.
CON:Waves
EVI:Closest:(from perihelion—closest proximity to the sun—to perihelion) would
EVI:Pointers:position, of the pointers of the other clock, then identical “settings”
EVI:According:Moreover, according to the special principle of relativity, this
EVI:Disclaim:Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
REL:Content:Regard
EVI:Does:we have just written down does not hold in reality. For the time being,
EVI:Light:_supposition nor a hypothesis_ about the physical nature of light, but
REL:Required:Prepare
SEQ:Website:Main
SEQ:Find:General
EVI:Some:some resemblance to the compilation of a classified catalogue. It is,
SEQ:Reality:Other
CON:Though
CON:Approach
SEQ:Takes:Considerably
SEQ:Body:Dimishes
SEQ:British:Royal
CON:Galactic
SEQ:Disc:General
CON:Readable
EVI:Body:XXIII. Behaviour of Clocks and Measuring-Rods on a Rotating Body of Reference
EVI:Works:destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
EVI:Have:here we shall have to deal in detail later.
SEQ:Stars:Approrimately
EVI:Mass:furnish us with important information as to the mass of the heavenly
EVI:Terms:works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
EVI:Motion:that motion. the contracted length being proportional to the expression
SEQ:Joint:Committee
EVI:Consideration:relativity. But a simple and apparently quite reliable consideration
EVI:Perceive:order to perceive that they are not living in a Euclidean universe.
EVI:Arbitrary:be arbitrary, although it was always tacitly made even before the
CON:Transferred
EVI:Found:found rather in the fact of his recognition that the four-dimensional
SEQ:Brilliant:Physicist
SEQ:Gravitational:Action
EVI:Natural:hypothesis (1) without introducing the less natural cosmological term
EVI:Under:deflection of these rays under the influence of electric and magnetic
EVI:Time:space-time by a single system of values _x_1, _x_2, _x_3, _x_4. Thus
EVI:Theoretical:here. In reality they limit the theoretical possibilities to such an
EVI:Physicists:generally accepted by physicists even if experiment had decided less
EVI:Time:surmount this difficulty. We refer the four-dimensional space-time
SEQ:Reaching:Agreement
SEQ:Physics:Than
SEQ:Claim:Unlimited
EVI:Place:description. The Gauss co-ordinate system has to take the place of the
SEQ:Relativity:Special
EVI:Orientation:For the relative orientation of the co-ordinate systems indicated in
EVI:About:about the physical behaviour of measuring-rods and clocks from the
EVI:These:is small compared with unity, the third of these terms is always small
SEQ:Kind:Being
EVI:Please:Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
EVI:Body:the change in the energy of the body. The inertial mass of a system of
EVI:Holding:he is holding in his hand. In this connection we have not taken account
EVI:These:In one of the most notable of these attempts Michelson devised a method
EVI:Field:gravitational field which is directed forwards and which is variable
EVI:Marble:that above with the marble slab), we should find that different laws
CON:Resolve
CON:Exclusively
SEQ:Manner:Takes
SEQ:Laws:What
CON:Caprice
EVI:System:rotation with regard to a Galileian system _K_, clocks of identical
EVI:Take:of rays of light can only take place when the velocity of propagation
EVI:Mass:body is equal to its _inertial_ mass.
SEQ:Connection:Galileian
EVI:Tube:relative to the tube.
EVI:Natural:for the formulation of natural laws, provided that they are in a state
EVI:Space:other are associated with neighbouring points “in space.”
EVI:Then:Instead of the equation (A) we then obtain the equation
EVI:These:these two numbers the co-ordinates of the surface of the table
EVI:Part:treated in the second part of this book.
EVI:Accordance:specifications of position must always be sought in accordance with the
SEQ:Body:Rotating
SEQ:Question:Because
EVI:Result:result we have gained a powerful argument for a generalised postulate
SEQ:Also:Satisfy
SEQ:Other:Objects
SEQ:Description:Also
EVI:Transmitted:ray will be transmitted with the velocity _c_ relative to the
SEQ:Raven:Moving
EVI:Similarly:can be measured up by means of a measuring-rod. Similarly, this
CON:Alteration
EVI:Never:even if I have never before seen a gas flame. For I can only say that
EVI:Four:“Euclidean” four-dimensional continuum, a result which follows from the
EVI:Think:The reader may think that such a description of the world would be
SEQ:Purpose:Suppose
EVI:Such:statements about their encounters. In our mathematical treatment, such
EVI:However:part, however, this modification affects only the laws for rapid
CON:Embraces
EVI:Biology:interest is available in the province of biology, in the Darwinian
EVI:Indirectly:including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
EVI:Taking:taking into account the properties of the propagation of light, we
SEQ:Then:Simultaneous
CON:Occult
SEQ:London:Arrive
EVI:Requires:requires that all these molluscs can be used as reference-bodies with
SEQ:Euclidean:Geometry
EVI:Project:Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
CON:Fifth
SEQ:Derivable:Them
EVI:Shall:strike you as being very singular, and for that reason I shall now draw
EVI:Obtain:by _x_1, _x_2, _x_3, _x_4, we also obtain the result that
SEQ:Include:Bodies
EVI:System:the solar system occupies only a negligibly small part of the spherical
EVI:Material:material points with reference to _K′_ simply by mathematical
CON:Invented
EVI:Arrive:can thus as a rough approximation arrive at a conclusion as to the
EVI:Characterise:things, then we can characterise the development which is being
CON:Newtonian
CON:Rays
EVI:Infinitely:this “infinitely dense” system covers the whole surface of the table.
CON:Grasp
EVI:Showed:showed that a different hypothesis was natural from a purely
EVI:Construct:shows that we are able to construct the Lorentz transformation in this
EVI:Successfully:classical mechanics was able to establish successfully the conservation
EVI:Mechanics:Analogously, I seek in vain for a real something in classical mechanics
SEQ:Equivalent:Result
SEQ:Phenomena:Calling
EVI:Length:dimensional space) of equal length in all directions. They will call
EVI:Perpendicular:lines in the sense of Euclidean geometry, and they are perpendicular to
SEQ:Hypothesis:Hereditary
EVI:Changes:changes in energy _E_0 to which we can subject a system are not large
SEQ:Earth:Produces
EVI:Assign:best plan would be to assign the distance one to two points on the
EVI:Produce:Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
EVI:Still:This conception is in itself not very satisfactory. It is still less
EVI:Cartesian:consideration. These two numbers are then the “Cartesian co-ordinates”
EVI:Remain:whilst the other does not, then I shall remain astonished and
EVI:Means:Up to the present, however, we have by no means maintained the
SEQ:Here:Taking
EVI:Supposed:dimensions be supposed available, we may represent it in the following
EVI:Assign:quite inadequate. What does it mean to assign to an event the
EVI:Principle:The basal principle, which was the pivot of all our previous
EVI:Result:Section XIII in connection with the experiment of Fizeau, the result of
SEQ:Valuable:Heuristic
CON:Pole
EVI:Motion:the motion of the raven would be one of different velocity and
SEQ:Half:Full
EVI:Light:basis of the law of the constancy of the velocity of light. But
SEQ:Gutenberg:Ebook
EVI:Domain:relativity must therefore apply with great accuracy in the domain of
EVI:Gravitation:gravitation. In point of fact, the systematic pursuit of the general
SEQ:Meteorologist:Discover
SEQ:Relationship:However
EVI:Mathematician:However, already in the ’twenties, the Russian mathematician Friedman
CON:Sought
SEQ:Judged:Have
SEQ:Given:Above
EVI:Earth:definite law, as we proceed farther and farther away from the earth.
EVI:Curves:numbers lying between 1 and 2. We have then a system of _u_-curves, and
SEQ:Rest:More
REL:According:Section
EVI:Motion:Newton-Kepler motion of a planet in its orbit should take place, and in
SEQ:Form:Plane
CON:Riemann
EVI:Sense:request to explain to me the sense of the statement more precisely, you
SEQ:Marked:Positions
EVI:These:law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
EVI:Respect:for the measurement of a distance, with respect to which body the
SEQ:Delicacy:Observation
SEQ:Points:Question
EVI:Formulated:Obviously our problem can be exactly formulated in the following
EVI:Thus:will interpret the condition of things thus: “The rope must perforce
EVI:Mechanical:mechanical behaviour is different from that of the case previously
EVI:Warranty:1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
CON:Produce
CON:Transformed
SEQ:Little:Used
EVI:Mechanics:classical mechanics. This theorem can also be deduced readily from the
CON:Proofread
EVI:Mean:quite inadequate. What does it mean to assign to an event the
CON:Displaying
CON:Examine
EVI:Practice:In practice, the rigid surfaces which constitute the system of
SEQ:Considerable:Greater
SEQ:Free:Access
EVI:Other:adjacent clocks (in space) differ from each other by an indefinitely
EVI:Influence:theoretically the influence of a gravitational field on the course of
EVI:Disc:bodies which are at rest relative to the disc, he regards as the effect
SEQ:Formal:Manner
SEQ:Clock:First
EVI:Ordinary:ordinary and the accented magnitudes is given by the Lorentz
CON:Performed
EVI:Reality:directly with the reality. But, on the other hand, these results must
EVI:Kind:produced in an analogous manner terrestrially (_i.e._ by the same kind
EVI:Observation:encounters of the body with clocks, in conjunction with the observation
EVI:Conviction:conviction that, according to the general principle of relativity, the
EVI:Bodies:of a special kind is then present with respect to these bodies (cf.
EVI:Task:then we should be faced with the task of testing whether or not this
EVI:Four:way. With every point of the continuum, we associate arbitrarily four
EVI:Recognition:recognition of the fact, that we can cast doubt on the _infiniteness_
EVI:Other:the variably heated marble slab, and if we had no other means of
SEQ:Serious:Difficulty
SEQ:Fifth:Appendix
EVI:Further:observer will further convince himself _that the acceleration of the
SEQ:Point:Diagram
EVI:Kind:OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
EVI:Load:position in space with “time.” I should load my conscience with grave
SEQ:Accordance:Reality
EVI:Likely:scarcely likely to arise as to its applicability in practice.
EVI:Seeing:example, of seeing in a “distance” two marked positions on a
EVI:Part:but in the course of time it would fill up an annular part of the
EVI:Proposition:express this by saying that by the “truth” of a geometrical proposition
EVI:Everything:If everything has really gone smoothly, then I say that the points of
EVI:Other:end (the beginning) coincides with the point _x′_ = 0 whilst the other
EVI:Embankment:train as measured from the embankment may be different from that
SEQ:Evident:Reality
EVI:Think:of light varies with position. Now we might think that as a consequence
SEQ:Allows:Visually
EVI:Right:starting from the origin, I proceed towards the “right” and then
EVI:Reference:reference-body which is not being pulled with a rope.
EVI:Imaginary:replace the usual time co-ordinate t by an imaginary magnitude
SEQ:Want:Remark
EVI:Exists:gravitational field exists relative to a reference-body _K_ whose state
EVI:Farther:field. Before proceeding farther, however, I must warn the reader
EVI:Itself:itself when we attempt to apply our earlier definition of simultaneity
SEQ:Enclose:Average
EVI:Introduce:introduce into the latter a new Cartesian co-ordinate system (_x′_1,
EVI:People:used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
SEQ:Arranged:Rigid
EVI:Most:invalidate it, but without success. But E. Mach recognised it most
EVI:Diminish:diminish, until finally, at great distances, it is succeeded by an
EVI:Physics:investigation, and to which the physics of pre-relativity days does not
CON:Appendices
CON:Xiii
SEQ:Addresses:Donations
SEQ:Depends:Upon
EVI:Above:time mentioned above. Comparison with the discussion in Section XII
CON:Incorrectness
REL:Electrostatics:Overthrown
SEQ:Outset:Speak
EVI:Anything:of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
EVI:Reference:reference to those fixed stars are found to be in accord with
EVI:Produced:infinitely large gravitational fields being produced. We thus free
EVI:Formal:experience. Guided by purely formal points of view, H. A. Lorentz was
EVI:Judged:Furthermore, the principle of relativity teaches us that, as judged
EVI:Have:numbers to them, in such a manner, that we simply have:
EVI:Stars:reference to those fixed stars are found to be in accord with
CON:Extends
SEQ:Bachem:Bonn
EVI:Chosen:of motion has been suitably chosen. _K_ is then a Galileian
SEQ:Physics:Work
EVI:Scene:Every description of the scene of an event or of the position of an
SEQ:Interest:Available
SEQ:Diagram:Velocity
SEQ:First:Introduce
EVI:Gravitation:THE SOLUTION OF THE PROBLEM OF GRAVITATION ON THE BASIS OF THE GENERAL
CON:Compliance
SEQ:Mass:Depends
SEQ:Rest:Reason
EVI:Following:the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
CON:Represents
EVI:Observed:distant would be seen in the direction _D_1, as observed front the
SEQ:Nevertheless:Must
SEQ:Conscientiously:Thoughtful
SEQ:Values:Greater
EVI:System:point. Thus for a co-ordinate system moving with the earth the mirror
SEQ:Prepare:Your
EVI:Moving:the same mechanical laws hold relatively to the non-uniformly moving
EVI:Gravitational:(Force) = (gravitational mass) x (intensity of the gravitational
EVI:Surface:_v_-curves, and thus also relative to the surface of the table. For the
EVI:Entity:or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.
EVI:World:“world” in a formal manner as a four-dimensional Euclidean space (with
EVI:Carriage:comparable with a railway carriage travelling with a velocity of about
REL:Clock:Situated
REL:Portrayed:Section
EVI:Originator:Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
EVI:Course:Geometry ought to refrain from such a course, in order to give to its
EVI:Signal:We suppose a light-signal sent out from the origin of _K_ at the time
EVI:Possesses:ray of light possesses the velocity of transmission _c_ relative to the
EVI:Nearly:of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
EVI:Relativity:ON THE RELATIVITY OF THE CONCEPTION OF DISTANCE
EVI:Expeditions:equipped two expeditions—to Sobral (Brazil), and to the island of
EVI:Requirement:long as this requirement is not satisfied, I allow myself to be
EVI:Space:“space” co-ordinates and _x_4, as a “time” co-ordinate.
EVI:Able:able to show that the velocity of propagation of light cannot depend on
SEQ:Hitherto:Recorded
SEQ:Refers:Meaning
SEQ:Along:Positive
EVI:Compliance:where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
EVI:Shall:another, shall indicate position and time directly. Such was the
EVI:Have:numbers lying between 1 and 2. We have then a system of _u_-curves, and
EVI:Theory:accordance with the theory of relativity the kinetic energy of a
EVI:Finally:these squares until finally the whole marble slab is laid out with
EVI:Thus:to the tube are thus known, and we require the velocity of light
SEQ:Occupied:Stone
EVI:Science:science has emerged from its initial stages, theoretical advances are
SEQ:Intellect:Because
CON:Readings
SEQ:Round:Earth
EVI:World:Undaunted by the [first world] war and by difficulties of both a
EVI:Ordinates:three space co-ordinates. Formally, these four co-ordinates correspond
SEQ:Matter:Whole
CON:Much
SEQ:Following:Equations
EVI:Distance:indicated, we are also in a position to establish the distance between
SEQ:Mechanics:Absolute
EVI:Definition:situated there. These data must be supplemented by such a definition of
SEQ:Compared:Other
EVI:Infinite:the universe is infinite. There are stars everywhere, so that the
EVI:Space:(2) The space-interval (distance) between two points of a rigid body is
EVI:Such:situated there. These data must be supplemented by such a definition of
SEQ:While:Other
SEQ:Displaced:Radially
EVI:Field:theoretically the influence of a gravitational field on the course of
EVI:Public:works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
CON:Explanation
SEQ:Relation:Experiment
EVI:Clocks:The observer performs experiments on his circular disc with clocks and
EVI:Necessary:necessary consequence. Prominent theoretical physicists were therefore
CON:Incompatibility
CON:Near
SEQ:Always:Simultaneous
SEQ:Same:Railway
EVI:Venture:the temptation to venture the step towards the general principle of
REL:Piece:Universe
EVI:Every:ray of light (and of course for every ray) with respect to _K_ and
EVI:Such:set in such a manner that a _particular_ position of the pointers of
SEQ:Hypothesis:Namely
REL:Vacuo:Satisfied
SEQ:Seconds:Clock
SEQ:Since:Other
SEQ:Changed:Uniform
SEQ:Determined:Governs
SEQ:Respect:Diminished
EVI:Your:check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
SEQ:Offers:Donate
EVI:Respect:respect to the æther. It is found by calculation, however, that a
EVI:Independent:(2) The magnitude (“radius”) of space is independent of time.
EVI:Instantaneous:instantaneous photograph by the distance
SEQ:Main:Equivalent
SEQ:Along:Embankment
CON:Imaginary
EVI:Local:slab of the table and local variation of temperature. The temperature
SEQ:Section:Shall
EVI:Considerable:still we must grant it a considerable measure of “truth,” since it
EVI:Universe:considered in Section XXIV. In contrast to ours, the universe of these
SEQ:These:Operations
EVI:These:arises as to which of these two theorems is the better in accord with
SEQ:Represented:Still
SEQ:Clearly:Seen
CON:Business
EVI:Wonder:It is a veritable wonder that we can carry out this business without
SEQ:Over:Amount
EVI:Thus:disposal the means of measuring time. It would thus appear as though we
CON:Disclaimers
EVI:Although:although the carriage changes its position relative to the embankment
EVI:Thus:of a metre. The rigid rod is thus shorter when in motion than when at
EVI:United:charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
EVI:Give:transformation give for these two ticks:
SEQ:Body:Equal
SEQ:Body:Refer
SEQ:Definition:These
EVI:Discover:of ingenious considerations an able meteorologist were to discover that
EVI:Room:their universe there is room for an infinite number of identical
EVI:Africa:Principe (West Africa)—and sent several of Britain’s most celebrated
SEQ:Compelled:Present
SEQ:Have:Read
EVI:Then:consideration. These two numbers are then the “Cartesian co-ordinates”
CON:Arrived
EVI:Different:identical construction will go at different rates when situated at
EVI:Coordinate:masses move with respect to the coordinate system with velocities which
CON:Uniformity
SEQ:Order:Approximation
REL:State:Change
SEQ:Being:Sufficient
SEQ:Distance:Independently
SEQ:Existence:Theory
SEQ:Framework:Similarly
SEQ:Only:Meaning
EVI:Rigid:positions (possessing names) on the rigid body of reference. In the
EVI:Results:nothing more nor less than the results of measurements obtainable by
EVI:Direct:_x_4 (co-ordinates), which have not the least direct physical
SEQ:Only:Systems
EVI:Transition:transition of one Gauss co-ordinate system into another.
EVI:Physical:foundation for the physical description of all natural phenomena. At
EVI:Expression:acceleration. If we develop the expression for the kinetic energy in
SEQ:Transformation:However
CON:Teaches
SEQ:Disc:Result
EVI:Relativity:A FEW INFERENCES FROM THE GENERAL PRINCIPLE OF RELATIVITY
EVI:Velocity:the clock goes more slowly than when at rest. Here also the velocity
CON:Rule
SEQ:Determines:Magnitude
EVI:Postulate:postulate of relativity excels not only in its beauty; nor in removing
SEQ:Pronounce:Even
SEQ:Varies:According
SEQ:Coordinates:Behaviour
SEQ:Represented:Maxwell
EVI:Against:to a second objection which must be raised against the apparently
EVI:Difficulties:difficulties? Let us consider how these difficulties arise.
CON:Central
EVI:Discussion:[14] Cf. the somewhat more detailed discussion in Appendix II.
EVI:Addition:THEOREM OF THE ADDITION OF VELOCITIES. THE EXPERIMENT OF FIZEAU
EVI:Newtonian:deductions from two theories in Newtonian mechanics on the one hand,
EVI:Consequence:contraction of the rod as a consequence of its motion.
EVI:Nature:Let me add a final remark of a fundamental nature. The success of the
EVI:Velocity:required, then both of these points are moving with the velocity v
EVI:Relations:respect to _K_ are given? The relations must be so chosen that the law
EVI:Particles:radioactive substances consist of negatively electrified particles
CON:Donors
EVI:Medium:received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
SEQ:Vantage:View
EVI:Theory:theory of relativity. As a consequence, I am guilty of a certain
SEQ:Means:Governing
SEQ:Metre:Relatively
EVI:Perplexing:experiment gave a negative result—a fact very perplexing to physicists.
SEQ:Unsatisfactory:Picture
EVI:True:that these propositions are true?” Let us proceed to give this question
SEQ:Exactly:When
CON:Basis
SEQ:Revert:Only
CON:Mechanics
EVI:Points:attracting material points is inversely proportional to the square of
EVI:Relative:relative to _K_ with a velocity _v_, but at rest with respect to the
EVI:Possible:(at rest). For this reason it is not possible to obtain a reasonable
EVI:Corresponding:amount corresponding to the angle _a_.
SEQ:Work:Foundation
SEQ:Three:Events
EVI:Position:(position of the hands) of that one of these clocks which is in the
SEQ:Field:Disappears
EVI:Body:But since a gravitational field exists with respect to this new body of
EVI:Took:that the lightning flash _B_ took place earlier than the lightning
SEQ:Reason:Body
EVI:Investigator:empirical data, the investigator rather develops a system of thought
EVI:About:comparable with a railway carriage travelling with a velocity of about
EVI:Hypotheses:drawing on hypotheses as to the physical nature of the liquid.
SEQ:Existence:Dimensional
EVI:Light:the velocity of motion of the body emitting the light. The assumption
CON:Produced
EVI:Title:Title: Relativity: The Special and General Theory
EVI:Measuring:Now in practice we can move clocks and measuring-rods only with
CON:Came
SEQ:Circumference:Disc
REL:Propagation:Light
EVI:Case:observation possible at the present time; but that in the case of
CON:Radiation
SEQ:Makes:More
CON:North
CON:Make
SEQ:Time:Under
EVI:Contraction:prime factor involved in this contraction we find, not the motion in
EVI:Magnetic:magnetic field operates on the piece of iron, so that the latter
SEQ:Coordinates:Simply
SEQ:Time:Have
CON:Profits
SEQ:Truth:Geometrical
REL:Properties:Space
SEQ:Origin:Time
SEQ:Created:Several
EVI:General:_K′_). From this we conclude, _that, in general, rays of light are
SEQ:Such:Times
SEQ:Difficulties:Newton
SEQ:Though:Being
SEQ:Contradict:Principle
EVI:Observer:presents insurmountable difficulties. If the observer applies his
CON:Function
SEQ:Rods:Little
CON:Considerations
EVI:Contraction:experiences a contraction in the direction of motion in consequence of
SEQ:Committed:Complying
SEQ:Whereas:Grebe
EVI:Relativity:According to the general theory of relativity, the major axis of the
SEQ:Definite:Positive
SEQ:Theory:Hitherto
EVI:Lines:lines in the sense of Euclidean geometry, and they are perpendicular to
SEQ:These:Deductions
SEQ:After:Hypothetical
SEQ:Particles:Moves
EVI:Place:common-place statement than that the world in which we live is a
EVI:General:In the second place our result shows that, according to the general
SEQ:Gauss:Variables
EVI:Time:definition of time with the aid of clocks which are arranged at rest
SEQ:Places:Identically
SEQ:Paragraph:Full
EVI:System:immediately follows. If referred to the system _K′_, the propagation of
EVI:Slightly:slightly different time _T′_ is required for this process, if the body,
SEQ:Define:Cartesian
SEQ:Follow:Terms
EVI:Best:the best experimental physicists, so that there can be no doubt about
SEQ:Introduction:Special
SEQ:Moreover:What
SEQ:Arbitrary:Although
SEQ:Limited:Warranties
EVI:Smaller:consideration behave more nearly like a Euclidean system, the smaller
SEQ:These:Deviations
SEQ:Always:Small
CON:University
SEQ:Federal:Identification
SEQ:Inversely:Proportional
CON:Legal
EVI:Marble:With reference to our little rods—defined as unit lengths—the marble
EVI:Body:of the body, the required energy of the body comes out to be
REL:Devoted:Attempts
SEQ:Form:Basis
EVI:Phenomena:Similarly, the world of physical phenomena which was briefly called
EVI:Gauss:reality, the description of the time-space continuum by means of Gauss
EVI:System:THE SYSTEM OF CO-ORDINATES
EVI:Apparent:THE APPARENT INCOMPATIBILITY OF THE LAW OF PROPAGATION OF LIGHT WITH
REL:Paperwork:Many
SEQ:Vanish:Even
SEQ:Last:Question
EVI:Have:of atom).[23] These two deductions from the theory have both been
EVI:Archive:The Einstein Reference Archive is online at:
SEQ:Further:Difficulty
EVI:Infinity:beings is two-dimensional; but, like ours, it extends to infinity. In
EVI:Amount:despite the shortness of the book, a fair amount of patience and force
EVI:Time:mark off the distance _S_ time after time until we reach _B_. The
SEQ:Speak:General
EVI:Bodies:bodies. By a suitable choice of units we can thus make this ratio equal
SEQ:Difficult:Find
EVI:Fundamental:fundamental idea of the general principle of relativity: “_All Gaussian
SEQ:Such:Sent
EVI:Classical:fundamental difficulty attending classical celestial mechanics, which,
SEQ:Calculate:Observed
EVI:Under:with respect to time. Under the influence of this field, the embankment
EVI:Beginning:this, we need only ask where the beginning of the rod and the end of
SEQ:Seeing:Distance
EVI:Convincing:We can now appreciate why that argument is not convincing, which we
SEQ:Frequently:Used
SEQ:Individual:Stars
EVI:Stars:We imagine a large portion of empty space, so far removed from stars
SEQ:Fields:Furthermore
EVI:Unsatisfactory:matter everywhere; it would present to us that unsatisfactory picture
EVI:Serious:was necessary to surmount a serious difficulty, and as this lies deep
EVI:Possessing:curved universe possessing central symmetry.
EVI:Such:Galileian reference-body _K_, such a ray of light is transmitted
EVI:Acts:be content to regard this as meaning that the magnet acts directly on
EVI:Being:innumerable laws which would serve the same purpose, without our being
EVI:Influenced:measuring-rods and clocks is influenced by gravitational fields, _i.e._
SEQ:Briefly:Here
EVI:Transformation:definite positive answer, and to a perfectly definite transformation
EVI:Clock:As judged from _K_, the clock is moving with the velocity _v_; as
EVI:Struggle:theory of the development of species by selection in the struggle for
EVI:Individual:the stars and also individual stars of the stellar system are
EVI:Comparison:considerable, the greater is the radius of the circle in comparison
CON:Credits
EVI:Result:and _b_ were known. These result from the following discussion.
EVI:Electric:electric fields can be derived correctly from electrostatic
EVI:Derivation:[9] A simple derivation of the Lorentz transformation is given in
SEQ:Numbers:Points
SEQ:Thought:Development
EVI:Determine:be commissioned to determine by observations whether in the actual case
EVI:Gravitational:XIX. The Gravitational Field
EVI:Thus:Thus we have obtained the Lorentz transformation for events on the
EVI:Newton:XXX. Cosmological Difficulties of Newton’s Theory
EVI:When:carriage as reference-body as when the rails are the body of reference.
SEQ:Method:Followed
SEQ:Emancipation:Fundamental
EVI:Surface:plane: something like the rippled surface of a lake. Such a universe
EVI:Relativity:theory of relativity has led is concerned with the conception of mass.
SEQ:Rods:Event
SEQ:Relativity:Reference
EVI:Process:of evolution of an empirical science to be a continuous process of
SEQ:Circle:Diameter
SEQ:Radius:Course
EVI:Something:ought to possess something of the nature of a centre. Of course we
SEQ:Point:Event
SEQ:Distributing:Project
SEQ:Semi:Axis
SEQ:Matter:Circumstance
SEQ:Work:Copyright
SEQ:Should:Find
EVI:Same:of the transmission of light in vacuo is satisfied for one and the same
SEQ:Variable:Imaginary
SEQ:Transformation:Thus
REL:Proceed:Give
EVI:World:world in this sense as a four-dimensional continuum is due to the fact
SEQ:Essence:Difficulty
EVI:Long:long as this requirement is not satisfied, I allow myself to be
SEQ:Observations:Just
EVI:Physically:represented physically by means of the convention of two marks on a
SEQ:Located:Also
CON:Particle
EVI:Vanish:events with respect to _K′_ does not in general vanish, even when the
EVI:Introduce:introduce the imaginary
EVI:Eclipse:observation during a total eclipse of the sun. At such times, these
EVI:Exactly:π exactly. This proves that the propositions of Euclidean geometry
EVI:Without:respect to the second framework. Without committing any fundamental
SEQ:General:Possible
EVI:Attracted:ground?” The usual answer to this question is: “Because it is attracted
EVI:Trafalgar:body to which the specification of place refers; “Trafalgar Square,
EVI:Events:time difference Δ_t_ of the same events with reference to _K_ vanishes.
SEQ:Least:Attribute
EVI:Found:posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
CON:Astonished
SEQ:Then:Instead
SEQ:Weight:Heaviness
EVI:Ordinate:represented with respect to the co-ordinate system _K_ by the abscissa
EVI:Laws:check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
EVI:Property:interpretation rests on the fundamental property of the gravitational
EVI:Stars:In practice, the question is tested in the following way. The stars in
EVI:Receive:opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
SEQ:Time:Made
EVI:Takes:whatsoever, as regards the manner in which it takes place in the
EVI:Most:The most important result of a general character to which the special
EVI:Transmission:the velocity of transmission of light _in vacuo_ has to be considered
EVI:Simultaneously:the two events took place simultaneously or not.” I cannot be satisfied
EVI:First:classical mechanics. The first term _mc_2 does not contain the
EVI:Small:Planets of our solar system its magnitude should be so small that it
EVI:Directly:directly with the reality. But, on the other hand, these results must
EVI:Exact:associated with the geometrical ideas. In less exact terms we can
EVI:Course:field will of course depend on the motion chosen for _K′._ According to
SEQ:Doubt:While
SEQ:Mentioned:Flowing
CON:Masses
EVI:Happy:bring some one a few happy hours of suggestive thought!
SEQ:Neutralised:Tension
SEQ:Embankment:Mathematically
EVI:Other:in any other direction whatsoever. Of cause this is not surprising,
SEQ:Present:Examination
EVI:Transformation:thought. Once in possession of the Lorentz transformation, however, we
EVI:Definition:physical definition of time which is made directly with the aid of
SEQ:Convinced:Natural
EVI:Stationary:stationary with respect to the fixed stars, but that it rotates
EVI:Paid:• You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
SEQ:Earth:Consequence
SEQ:Should:Take
CON:Fitted
SEQ:Result:Amounts
SEQ:Whose:Mode
CON:Stored
EVI:Points:case in which the points of the surface considered form a Euclidean
EVI:Fixed:transmitted to us from a fixed star, as compared with the position of
SEQ:Each:Date
EVI:Relativity:to doubt the validity of this principle of relativity. But in view of
SEQ:Lightning:Flashes
EVI:Continue:from other material particles continue to move uniformly in a straight
EVI:Velocity:it is of constant velocity and direction, “translation” because
EVI:Whatsoever:in any other direction whatsoever. Of cause this is not surprising,
SEQ:Person:Entity
SEQ:Total:Area
CON:Atmosphere
CON:Venus
REL:Ought:Appear
EVI:Regard:be content to regard this as meaning that the magnet acts directly on
CON:Cobbler
EVI:Clear:is clear that Gauss co-ordinates are nothing more than an association
SEQ:Defined:Point
SEQ:Paragraph:Agree
CON:Geometry
EVI:Consideration:From this consideration we see that it will be advantageous if, in the
SEQ:Produced:Thus
EVI:Performing:claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
EVI:Body:section. If instead of “body of reference” we insert “system of
EVI:Inertial:the change in the energy of the body. The inertial mass of a system of
EVI:Walking:Hence it cannot be contended that the man in walking travels the
EVI:Angular:absolute angular measure customary in physics, and the above expression
SEQ:Carry:Mission
EVI:Matter:(1) There exists an average density of matter in the whole of space
EVI:Conflict:discard this assumption, then the conflict between the law of the
EVI:Including:compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
EVI:Vacuo:of the transmission of light in vacuo is satisfied for one and the same
EVI:Relativity:the theory of relativity, since according to this theory time is robbed
SEQ:Than:Expression
EVI:Must:which appears as though it must be decisive. Imagine two mirrors so
SEQ:Mass:Argument
EVI:Rope:Suppose that the man in the chest fixes a rope to the inner side of the
EVI:Writing:the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
SEQ:Nature:Transmission
EVI:Train:(co-ordinate system); they regard all events in reference to the train.
SEQ:Copying:Displaying
SEQ:Application:Measuring
SEQ:Infringement:Defective
EVI:Prevailing:same laws, even in the case where the prevailing gravitational field is
EVI:When:path of the same ray of light is no longer a straight line when we
SEQ:Emits:Light
SEQ:Stars:Resulting
SEQ:Established:Adams
SEQ:Centre:Disc
SEQ:Leads:Conclusively
EVI:Notice:contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
SEQ:Domain:Referred
EVI:Equation:_K_. By means of the first equation of the Lorentz transformation the
EVI:Approximation:or to the same order of approximation by
REL:Ellipse:Every
EVI:Than:common-place statement than that the world in which we live is a
EVI:Particular:co-ordinate systems, one (_K_) corresponding to a particular state of
EVI:Devised:which have little probability, and which were devised solely for this
SEQ:Attempt:Realise
SEQ:Must:Satisfy
EVI:Experience:experience, _i.e._ of experience that we can have in the movement of
SEQ:When:Body
SEQ:Fasten:Himself
EVI:Vacuum:velocity of light _c_ (in vacuum) is justifiably believed by the child
EVI:Preference:for this preference?_” In order to show clearly what I mean by this
EVI:Observation:deductions from the theory which admit of being tested by observation,
CON:Eventually
SEQ:Added:Einstein
EVI:Existence:physicists were devoted to attempts to detect the existence of an
SEQ:Shortening:Direction
SEQ:Revolution:Amount
EVI:Place:Then every event which takes place along the line also takes place at a
EVI:Hence:in all positions and in every orientation. Hence the idea of a straight
EVI:Theory:is projected through a gravitational field. As a result of this theory,
EVI:Work:1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
CON:Notices
CON:Applicable
EVI:Clock:Let us now consider a seconds-clock which is permanently situated at
SEQ:Adhered:Scrupulously
SEQ:Number:Curves
EVI:Same:continuum, has the same value for all selected (Galileian)
EVI:Mechanics:reference-bodies _K_ the law is not valid. Both in classical mechanics
EVI:Point:gravitation. In point of fact, the systematic pursuit of the general
SEQ:Course:Feature
REL:Hypothesis:Space
SEQ:Have:Check
EVI:Freely:behaviour of measuring-rods and clocks and also of freely-moving
EVI:Dimensional:an example of a two-dimensional continuum. Just as it was there
EVI:Doubt:the best experimental physicists, so that there can be no doubt about
EVI:Relative:nature” can be said to hold, and reference-bodies _K_ relative to which
SEQ:Planet:Between
EVI:Michelson:Michelson and Morley performed an experiment involving interference in
EVI:Sphere:justification in the fact that, of all closed surfaces, the sphere is
EVI:Always:be arbitrary, although it was always tacitly made even before the
SEQ:Constant:Curvature
EVI:Matter:calculation indicate that if matter be distributed uniformly, the
SEQ:Empirical:Data
EVI:Terrestrial:have never revealed such anisotropic properties in terrestrial physical
SEQ:Coming:Conflict
SEQ:Train:Exactly
SEQ:Angle:Deflection
EVI:Myself:long as this requirement is not satisfied, I allow myself to be
SEQ:Such:Distances
SEQ:Motion:Such
EVI:Another:transformation for changing over from one body of reference to another.
EVI:Terms:It expresses _x′, y′, x′, t′_, in terms of linear homogeneous functions
EVI:Part:light plays the part of the man walking along relatively to the
SEQ:Fields:Such
EVI:Possessing:those possessing motion of a different kind). In this sense we speak of
EVI:Enables:the fact that the theory of relativity enables us to predict the
CON:Upwards
EVI:Starting:starting from the origin, I proceed towards the “right” and then
EVI:Special:EXPERIENCE AND THE SPECIAL THEORY OF RELATIVITY
EVI:Unlimited:claim an unlimited domain of validity; its results hold only so long as
REL:License:Very
CON:Insufficient
SEQ:Always:Calls
EVI:Sense:the one clock is _simultaneous_ (in the above sense) with the _same_
EVI:Than:extent, that no other theory than that of Maxwell and Lorentz has been
REL:Right:Prevent
EVI:Modification:In order to escape this dilemma, Seeliger suggested a modification of
EVI:Theory:Title: Relativity: The Special and General Theory
EVI:Principle:brought forward against the general principle of relativity at the end
SEQ:Goal:Actual
EVI:Concept:“simultaneous” plays a part. The concept does not exist for the
CON:Staircase
SEQ:Process:Area
SEQ:Clocks:Material
SEQ:Question:Reality
CON:Mass
EVI:Every:Gaussian co-ordinates, every such statement is expressed by the
SEQ:Result:More
SEQ:Work:Files
EVI:Mentioned:this connection the difficulty mentioned in Section XXX finds its
EVI:Fairer:are invariable with regard to time. No fairer destiny could be allotted
EVI:Cause:relativity will be untenable. On the other hand, if the cause of the
CON:Object
EVI:Cartesian:rods, and we cannot define Cartesian co-ordinates _in the surface_.
EVI:Rigid:constructions to be made with rigid rods _in the surface_ (similar to
EVI:Field:the influence of the gravitational field on the course of all those
SEQ:Body:Towards
CON:Arguments
EVI:Experience:stone and produces its motion of fall. As we know from experience, the
EVI:Time:time difference Δ_t_ of the same events with reference to _K_ vanishes.
EVI:Means:By means of the first and fourth equations of the Galilei
SEQ:Rods:Equal
EVI:True:constrained to call the propositions of geometry “true.” Geometrical
EVI:State:line or continue in a state of rest. We have also repeatedly emphasised
SEQ:Observation:Have
EVI:Lengths:have been made, their lengths being small compared with the dimensions
REL:Scientific:Philosophical
SEQ:Position:Table
EVI:Points:material points with reference to _K′_ simply by mathematical
SEQ:Increases:Zero
SEQ:Particularly:Simple
SEQ:When:Three
EVI:First:according to the first of the equations (5)
EVI:Different:Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
EVI:Space:We imagine a large portion of empty space, so far removed from stars
EVI:Defined:co-ordinates and times of events have not been defined, we cannot
EVI:Project:﻿The Project Gutenberg eBook of Relativity: The Special and General Theory
EVI:Magnitude:magnitude of our sun. We might imagine that, as regards geometry, our
REL:Result:Also
EVI:English:Language: English
EVI:Gravitational:idea of relativity has supplied the laws satisfied by the gravitational
EVI:Reader:statement of simultaneity. (I would ask the reader not to proceed
SEQ:Relations:Derived
SEQ:Group:Works
SEQ:Principles:According
CON:Joining
SEQ:Basis:Constancy
EVI:Description:_equivalent_ for the description of natural phenomena. In this case we
SEQ:Consider:Instance
SEQ:Absolutely:Rest
EVI:Compared:are small as compared with the velocity of transmission of light. We
SEQ:Volunteers:Financial
EVI:Although:be arbitrary, although it was always tacitly made even before the
EVI:Certainty:permits of our answering it with a moderate degree of certainty, and in
EVI:Galileian:of motion has been suitably chosen. _K_ is then a Galileian
EVI:Theory:theory would have been disproved. Let us now examine what general
EVI:Flashes:and the light rays emitted by the flashes of lightning _A_ and _B_
EVI:Days:defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
EVI:Must:answer must be in the negative.
CON:Implied
EVI:Time:transformation, we replace the space-time variables _x, y, z, t_, of a
SEQ:Requiring:Special
EVI:Quite:embankment and relative to the train? This question leads to a quite
EVI:Other:the places _A_ and _B_, where the lightning occurs, meet each other at
EVI:Construct:impossible to construct a Cartesian co-ordinate system from equal rods,
EVI:Uniform:direction, but that it would still be uniform and in a straight line.
EVI:Distance:the embankment through a distance _v_ equal numerically to the velocity
CON:Opponents
SEQ:Such:Each
SEQ:Strings:Directions
EVI:Mass:_M_ is the mass of the heavenly body. Thus a displacement towards the
EVI:Phrase:redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
SEQ:Permanent:Future
EVI:Thus:_v_-curves, and thus also relative to the surface of the table. For the
EVI:Designated:of designated points of reference.
EVI:Velocity:section. If we denote the velocity of the light relative to the tube by
EVI:Direction:contraction of the body in the direction of motion, the amount of
EVI:Space:used before. Let us consider a space time domain in which no
EVI:Influenced:since there are other things which are not influenced in a similar
EVI:Sphere:sphere rather than on another closed surface. But this choice has its
SEQ:Works:Medium
SEQ:Became:Meaningless
EVI:Force:(Force) = (inertial mass) x (acceleration),
EVI:Reasons:one, for reasons which will become evident at a later stage.
SEQ:Before:Notice
EVI:Notice:INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
EVI:Masses:and other appreciable masses, that we have before us approximately the
EVI:Illustration:a complete place specification. On the basis of this illustration, we
EVI:Being:capable of being tested, the agreement between the theories may be so
SEQ:Astronomer:Seeliger
EVI:Puzzled:puzzled for a moment as to why the chest does not fall in this
EVI:Functions:It expresses _x′, y′, x′, t′_, in terms of linear homogeneous functions
EVI:Then:the embankment). We denote this velocity by the symbol _W_, and we then
SEQ:Reference:Magnitude
EVI:Proceed:statement of simultaneity. (I would ask the reader not to proceed
CON:Traversed
SEQ:Those:Resulting
SEQ:Have:Galileian
SEQ:Hypothesis:Validity
EVI:Your:cannot be read by your equipment.
CON:Stages
EVI:Slightly:spherical surface differs only slightly from a piece of a plane of the
EVI:Reference:considered as reference-body. The general principle of relativity
SEQ:Choice:Units
EVI:Same:innumerable laws which would serve the same purpose, without our being
EVI:Licensed:increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
CON:Epitome
SEQ:Seen:Clearly
SEQ:Obtained:Lorentz
EVI:Outside:outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.
EVI:Conjunction:It is required by the law of propagation of light, in conjunction with
CON:Living
SEQ:Regarded:Euclidean
EVI:Considered:considered as reference-body. The general principle of relativity
SEQ:Point:Passing
EVI:Ordinates:co-ordinates have no significance? More careful consideration shows,
SEQ:Arrive:Following
EVI:Have:law of the propagation of light _in vacuo_) have exactly the same form
SEQ:Must:Confused
EVI:Analogous:represented by the analogous formula
SEQ:Determined:Main
EVI:Fixed:the following way. As seen from the earth, certain fixed stars appear
SEQ:Interpretation:Quite
CON:Physics
SEQ:Thus:Number
SEQ:Have:Found
EVI:Point:question as to how the energy of a point-mass; depends on the velocity.
EVI:Objection:clearly of all, and because of this objection he claimed that mechanics
EVI:Difficult:complete that it becomes difficult to find any deductions in which the
SEQ:Contain:Defects
SEQ:Relationship:Takes
EVI:Copyright:representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
EVI:Lightning:whether or not both the lightning strokes occurred simultaneously. As
EVI:Unit:clock per unit time (“rate” of the clock) relative to _K_ when the
SEQ:Thus:Spherical
EVI:Relation:however, is not concerned with the relation of the ideas involved in it
EVI:Full:if he does not wish to be laid out full length on the floor. He is then
EVI:Same:transformed into a law of exactly the same form when, instead of the
SEQ:Marxists:Reference
SEQ:Entered:Arena
SEQ:Events:Independent
SEQ:These:Lightning
EVI:Stars:the universe is infinite. There are stars everywhere, so that the
EVI:Towards:shall leave it here at present, and revert to it only towards the end
SEQ:Supplies:Simple
SEQ:Another:Point
EVI:Fizeau:experiment which the brilliant physicist Fizeau performed more than
SEQ:Regard:Atom
SEQ:Theoretically:Represented
SEQ:Forwards:Variable
EVI:Continuum:that the marble slab is a “Euclidean continuum.” This can be done in a
SEQ:Same:Such
EVI:Addition:which corresponds to the theorem of addition for velocities in one
EVI:Fundamental:undergone by the fundamental idea of the general theory of relativity
EVI:Body:Galileian reference-body _K_. As judged from this body, the clock at
EVI:Snapshot:distance 1 (relative to _K_) will be represented on our snapshot by the
SEQ:Past:Experience
SEQ:Principle:Expansive
EVI:Section:accordance with the discussion contained in the preceding section, it
EVI:Between:estimated difference between these two times is exceedingly small,
SEQ:Might:Imagine
SEQ:Metre:Moving
SEQ:Flying:Raven
EVI:Project:Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
CON:Complicated
EVI:Time:instance, that we know the space-time “course” for any natural process
EVI:Fact:the present time (1920; see[Note], p. 48), owing to the fact that the
EVI:Accelerated:reason nor known mechanical laws. Even though it is being accelerated
EVI:Agree:fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
SEQ:Copies:Providing
SEQ:Increased:Regularly
SEQ:Investigate:Space
EVI:Embankment:one second as judged from the embankment.
EVI:Compared:stars as compared with the spectral lines of the same element produced
EVI:Amount:“expand” by in amount proportional to the increase of temperature. We
SEQ:Regarded:Curved
SEQ:Pursuit:General
EVI:Have:co-ordinates have no significance? More careful consideration shows,
EVI:Thus:to be in the neighbourhood of the sun, and are thus capable of
SEQ:Whether:True
EVI:Foundation:Literary Archive Foundation
SEQ:System:Occasion
REL:According:Known
SEQ:Universe:Conceivable
SEQ:Above:Considerations
EVI:Moving:were moving here in a logical circle.”
SEQ:Always:Only
EVI:Front:The surface of a marble table is spread out in front of me. I can get
REL:Given:Section
SEQ:Distance:Line
SEQ:Proceed:Disclose
SEQ:Puts:Position
EVI:Dimensional:a two-dimensional geometry, just as much as for a plane surface. Gauss
EVI:General:Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™
EVI:Before:this phenomenon was given by H. A. Lorentz long before the statement of
EVI:Principle:between the principle of relativity and the law of propagation of
EVI:Measuring:following suggestion with which to test simultaneity. By measuring
EVI:Inertial:amount of energy _E_0, then its inertial mass increases by an amount
SEQ:Given:Relations
EVI:Cannot:acknowledge, we cannot form the slightest conception, and we replace it
EVI:Along:along the embankment. In the first place we require to determine the
EVI:Satisfy:(_c_) Gravitational field and matter together must satisfy the law of
CON:Earth
SEQ:Planet:Exhibits
EVI:Stand:the man were to stand still for a second, he would advance relative to
EVI:Laws:processes which take place according to known laws when a gravitational
EVI:Carry:It is a veritable wonder that we can carry out this business without
SEQ:Shall:Interpreted
EVI:Dimensional:three-dimensional spherical space is quite analogous to the
EVI:Motion:reference in our statement of the motion taking place. If it is simply
SEQ:Basis:Tacit
EVI:Called:might fittingly be called a quasi-Euclidean universe. As regards its
EVI:Sins:sins against the sacred spirit of lucidity were I to formulate the aims
EVI:Lorentz:_x_ the value _ct_ in the first and fourth equations of the Lorentz
SEQ:Have:Particular
SEQ:Just:Being
EVI:Continuum:continuum in a definite but arbitrary manner. This arrangement does not
SEQ:Fundamental:Equations
EVI:Altered:fields it has not appreciably altered the predictions of theory, but it
CON:Basal
EVI:Great:The great power possessed by the general principle of relativity lies
EVI:Manner:that they are set in such a manner that the positions of their pointers
EVI:Light:A ray of light requires a perfectly definite time _T_ to pass from one
SEQ:Room:Home
EVI:Whatsoever:whatsoever, as regards the manner in which it takes place in the
CON:Minkowski
EVI:Physical:interpretation is quite justified also from a physical point of view.
SEQ:Towards:Magnet
SEQ:Points:Train
EVI:Cannot:year, the earth cannot be at rest relative to the hypothetical system
CON:Refrain
EVI:Corresponds:(_N.B._—One complete revolution corresponds to the angle 2π in the
EVI:Small:where _du_ and _dv_ signify very small numbers. In a similar manner we
SEQ:Given:Gravitational
SEQ:Doubtless:Difficult
EVI:What:quite inadequate. What does it mean to assign to an event the
CON:Particularly
SEQ:Thus:Shorter
EVI:Space:velocity _v_ to be continued across the whole of space, so that every
EVI:Judged:[11] _E_0 is the energy taken up, as judged from a co-ordinate system
EVI:Since:universe would necessarily be spherical (or elliptical). Since in
SEQ:Galileian:Uniform
EVI:Euclidean:exactly to the three space co-ordinates in Euclidean geometry. It must
EVI:Respect:rotating uniformly with respect to _K_. In order to fix our ideas, we
REL:Method:Riemann
EVI:Choose:possible to choose a Galileian reference-body for this part of space
SEQ:Field:Giving
EVI:Official:other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
EVI:Despite:despite the shortness of the book, a fair amount of patience and force
SEQ:Does:Become
EVI:Rest:system “absolutely at rest,” and all other Galileian systems _K_ “in
SEQ:Four:Numbers
SEQ:Other:Material
SEQ:Points:Four
EVI:Railway:travelling along the railway lines with the velocity _v_, and that its
EVI:Suitable:in a “Galileian” fashion under suitable choice of reference-body,
EVI:Conscience:position in space with “time.” I should load my conscience with grave
EVI:Matter:motions, in which the velocities of matter _v_ are not very small as
EVI:Continues:freely-moving material points continues to take place according to the
SEQ:Difficulties:Arise
EVI:Matter:If we are to have in the universe an average density of matter which
CON:Deeply
EVI:Observer:naturally does not exist for this observer. He must fasten himself with
EVI:Themselves:then resolve themselves into propositions on the possible relative
SEQ:Organpipe:Placed
REL:Full:Water
EVI:Fields:field must be satisfied for all gravitational fields obtainable in this
EVI:Free:Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
SEQ:Every:Respect
SEQ:Each:Point
SEQ:Truth:Theory
SEQ:Payments:Should
EVI:Permit:with the empirical data of astronomy, permit no decision to be reached
EVI:Evident:became evident that _in reality there is not the least incompatibilitiy
SEQ:Satisfy:General
EVI:Days:within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
EVI:Possible:possible to describe the position of a point (at rest) by means of
SEQ:Event:Determined
EVI:Assume:the demands of the (special) theory of relativity assume mathematical
EVI:Relativity:ideas of either the special or the general theory of relativity, I
EVI:Project:The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
EVI:Principle:conviction that, according to the general principle of relativity, the
EVI:Sobral:equipped two expeditions—to Sobral (Brazil), and to the island of
CON:Inevitable
REL:Encounter:Expressed
EVI:Newby:Transcription to text: Gregory B. Newby
SEQ:Experiment:Fizeau
SEQ:Slab:When
EVI:Raise:regard the matter as quite settled, because I feel constrained to raise
EVI:Form:it is difficult to form an opinion as to its existence. Whereas Grebe
SEQ:Shared:Anyone
CON:Naturally
EVI:Same:equations must pass over into equations of the same form; for every
EVI:Galileian:co-ordinates of _K_ and _K′_. It thus appears that, of all Galileian
EVI:Without:It is a veritable wonder that we can carry out this business without
CON:Supplement
EVI:Curved:universe behaves analogously to a surface which is irregularly curved
EVI:Slab:heat the central part of the marble slab, but not the periphery, in
EVI:First:rod in common with the first. We proceed in like manner with each of
SEQ:Society:Royal
SEQ:Appendix:Transformed
EVI:Then:half a century ago, and which has been repeated since then by some of
EVI:Motion:the carriage is not sensible of its motion, and it is for this reason
EVI:Expressed:which holds most accurately, can be expressed in a different form in
EVI:General:(formulation of the general laws of nature), whatever may be their
EVI:Special:﻿The Project Gutenberg eBook of Relativity: The Special and General Theory
EVI:Truth:express this by saying that by the “truth” of a geometrical proposition
EVI:After:After some time perhaps the following answer would occur to you: “The
EVI:Considerations:In view of the resuIts of these considerations we are led to the
EVI:True:virtue of these ideas, we are inclined to accept as “true.” Then, on
EVI:Euclidean:XXVII. The Space-Time Continuum of the General Theory of Relativity is Not a Euclidean Continuum
SEQ:Position:Hands
EVI:Opportunity:opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
EVI:Innumerable:innumerable laws which would serve the same purpose, without our being
EVI:Eclipse:simultaneously for different colours during the eclipse of a fixed star
EVI:Events:Pure “space-distance” of two events with respect to _K_ results in
SEQ:Notice:Luminous
EVI:Lorentz:_K_. By means of the first equation of the Lorentz transformation the
EVI:While:While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
SEQ:Understand:General
EVI:Corresponds:Galilei transformation or the Lorentz transformation corresponds to the
EVI:Remark:I further want to remark that the theory of expanding space, together
EVI:Special:case. We can only conclude that the special theory of relativity cannot
SEQ:Taken:Place
EVI:Removed:imagine the air above it to have been removed. If a ray of light be
EVI:Beings:these beings say their universe is “plane,” there is sense in the
EVI:Other:extent, that no other theory than that of Maxwell and Lorentz has been
SEQ:Compelled:Nobody
EVI:Carriage:the carriage, who traverses the distance _w per second_ relative to the
EVI:Coordinates:indicates the reference-bodies or systems of coordinates, permissible
SEQ:Relativity:Lies
EVI:Following:the light of the following consideration.
EVI:Deductions:of atom).[23] These two deductions from the theory have both been
EVI:Limited:1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
SEQ:Only:Laws
EVI:Relativity:PRINCIPLE OF RELATIVITY
CON:Scenes
EVI:Removed:out from the following law: Material particles sufficiently far removed
EVI:Certain:the following way. As seen from the earth, certain fixed stars appear
SEQ:Under:Influence
CON:Dissatisfied
SEQ:Draw:Attention
EVI:Particularly:formulated in a particularly simple manner, and of course only on
EVI:Abandon:abandon either the principle of relativity or the simple law of the
SEQ:Section:Concluded
SEQ:Moving:Ordinate
SEQ:Rectilinearly:Velocity
CON:Last
EVI:Directions:in other directions.
EVI:Manner:in which we live is infinite, or whether it is finite in the manner of
SEQ:Difficulty:Understanding
SEQ:Manner:Effects
EVI:Experiment:Section XIII in connection with the experiment of Fizeau, the result of
EVI:Laws:to the theory of relativity, the “time” _x_4, enters into natural laws
EVI:Know:We already know from our previous discussion that the behaviour of
EVI:Modern:by the earth.” Modern physics formulates the answer rather differently
SEQ:Replace:Space
EVI:Body:gravitational field exists relative to a reference-body _K_ whose state
EVI:Consideration:We start off on a consideration of a Galileian domain, _i.e._ a domain
EVI:Bodies:chest would not be able to interpret the behaviour of the bodies around
EVI:Universe:arises for astronomers and physicists, and that is whether the universe
EVI:Velocity:that this velocity of propagation is dependent on the direction “in
EVI:State:We can state this general principle of relativity in still another
SEQ:Copyright:Does
SEQ:These:Postulates
SEQ:Relativity:Other
SEQ:These:Conditions
EVI:Itself:This conception is in itself not very satisfactory. It is still less
REL:Consideration:Section
SEQ:Success:Such
SEQ:Original:Reference
SEQ:Owing:Impenetrability
SEQ:Grounds:Experience
SEQ:Nothing:Exists
EVI:Space:II. Minkowski’s Four-Dimensional Space (“World”) (supplementary to section XVII)
EVI:Measurements:regarded essentially as magnitudes (results of measurements) capable of
SEQ:Points:Time
SEQ:Corresponding:Values
SEQ:Previous:Discussion
CON:Remark
CON:Meteorologist
SEQ:Later:More
SEQ:Points:Surface
SEQ:However:Great
SEQ:Such:Theory
EVI:About:staircase of which you were chased about for uncounted hours by
SEQ:Meet:Corner
EVI:Away:such away, that the angle described by the radius sun-planet between
EVI:Railway:according to the principle of relativity, be the same for the railway
EVI:Situation:situation depicted here corresponds to the one brought about by the
SEQ:Original:Static
CON:Differ
EVI:Electronic:electronic works
SEQ:Indemnify:Hold
SEQ:Solicit:Donations
EVI:Motion:motion.” If, for instance, our embankment were the system _K0_ then our
SEQ:Payments:Must
EVI:Same:points on a practically rigid body always correspond to the same
EVI:Empty:light is propagated in empty space. Every child at school knows, or
EVI:Sequence:most intelligible form, and on the whole, in the sequence and
SEQ:About:Time
EVI:Theory:slovenliness of treatment, which, as we know from the special theory of
SEQ:Agrees:Fizeau
EVI:Flat:on a spherical surface instead of on a plane. The flat beings with
EVI:Move:likewise the behaviour of “isolated” material points; the latter move
SEQ:Parallel:These
EVI:Introduction:introduction of an auxiliary hypothesis, which in itself—_i.e._ without
EVI:Rods:continuum with reference to the measuring-rods, but only in this case,
SEQ:Present:Respect
EVI:Find:our flat beings would find for this ratio the value
SEQ:Lawson:Authorised
SEQ:Propositions:Shown
CON:Identically
SEQ:Begin:Move
SEQ:These:Difficulties
EVI:Window:“space.” I stand at the window of a railway carriage which is
SEQ:Theory:Velocity
CON:Equivalent
EVI:Rigid:(_a_) We imagine the rigid body, to which the place specification is
EVI:United:theory of relativity they have been united into one law. We shall now
SEQ:Motions:Fixed
EVI:Gutenberg:1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
CON:Theorem
EVI:Light:section. If we denote the velocity of the light relative to the tube by
SEQ:Latter:Have
EVI:Interval:during the interval between one perihelion and the next.) In this
CON:Essence
EVI:Systems:indicates the reference-bodies or systems of coordinates, permissible
EVI:Dimensional:“world” in a formal manner as a four-dimensional Euclidean space (with
EVI:Event:immediate vicinity (in space) of the event. In this manner a time-value
EVI:Unchanged:constituting the electron remain unchanged during the motion of the
EVI:Also:experience which support the electromagnetic theory also support the
EVI:Liquid:of light relative to the liquid and the velocity of the latter relative
EVI:Displacement:itself in a slight displacement of the spectral lines of the light
SEQ:Results:Hold
SEQ:Likely:Arise
EVI:Between:in the diagram. Between the curves _u_ = 1 and _u_ = 2 we must imagine
SEQ:Seen:General
EVI:Project:all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
SEQ:Type:Newton
EVI:Manner:manner indicated above; that for all the planets, with the exception of
SEQ:Used:Official
SEQ:What:Kind
SEQ:Measures:Make
EVI:Must:Every general law of nature must be so constituted that it is
EVI:Embankment:embankment) have already been defined in detail in the preceding
EVI:Arranged:arranged on a rigid body that the reflecting surfaces face each other.
EVI:Resolves:resolves itself into a number of statements, each of which refers to
EVI:Newton:more general theoretical principles as is the law of Newton.
SEQ:Particular:Constructions
CON:Replace
EVI:Space:interpretation of space- and time-data in the case of the general
EVI:Spherical:spherical surface. We can specially measure up the area (_F_) of this
EVI:Thoughts:awakened by thoughts of the occult. And yet there is no more
EVI:Course:Of course we must refer the process of the propagation of light (and
EVI:Xxii:In Section XXII it has been already mentioned that according to the
SEQ:Distinguishable:Each
CON:Insert
EVI:Relativity:necessary until we come to deal with the general theory of relativity,
EVI:Form:case in which the points of the surface considered form a Euclidean
SEQ:Hypothesis:Force
SEQ:Mean:Assertion
SEQ:Terms:Agreement
EVI:Accordance:disc, will, in accordance with Section XII, be given by
EVI:Warranties:OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
SEQ:Observation:Under
EVI:Your:the following objection: “Your definition would certainly be right, if
EVI:Exists:domains, _i.e._ to those in which no gravitational field exists. In
EVI:Question:case, and how this question is connected with the general postulate of
EVI:Embankment:here replaced by the velocity of light relative to the embankment. _w_
EVI:Limitation:limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
REL:Order:Approximation
CON:Quantitatively
EVI:Obtain:Δ_x_ in (7) must be equal to Δ_x′_ in (7_a_), so that we obtain
EVI:Forth:royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
REL:According:Whom
SEQ:Perihelion:Closest
SEQ:Laws:Satisfied
EVI:Euclidean:Euclidean. It follows directly from this discussion, that for our
EVI:Radius:from _K_, if it is applied to the disc in the direction of the radius.
EVI:Mentioned:purchase our emancipation from the fundamental difficulties mentioned,
SEQ:Astronomical:Society
EVI:Latter:the surface by describing the latter as a continuum.
SEQ:Facts:Outset
EVI:Inferences:XXII. A Few Inferences from the General Principle of Relativity
EVI:Common:the sun and the planet. In such a system, the sun, or the common centre
EVI:Imagine:which appears as though it must be decisive. Imagine two mirrors so
EVI:Position:position in space with “time.” I should load my conscience with grave
EVI:Work:beginning of this work.
SEQ:Theoretical:Result
EVI:Foundation:Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
SEQ:Must:Decisive
SEQ:Relativity:Consequence
EVI:Effect:predicted effect can be seen clearly from the accompanying diagram. If
EVI:State:least depend either on the material or on the physical state of the
SEQ:Seems:Result
EVI:Requires:The principle of relativity requires that the law of the conservation
SEQ:Astronomy:Permit
SEQ:Operating:Between
EVI:Between:discrepancies to be expected between the stellar photographs obtained
SEQ:Codes:Damage
SEQ:Velocity:Carriage
SEQ:Thus:Appear
EVI:Predictions:fields it has not appreciably altered the predictions of theory, but it
EVI:Property:and by “jumps” (if he is not too pedantic). We express this property of
EVI:Relativity:the theory of relativity. This theory was of a purely electrodynamical
EVI:Reference:transformation for changing over from one body of reference to another.
EVI:Respect:geometry. The surface is not a Euclidean continuum with respect to the
SEQ:Attenuated:Swarm
EVI:Entirety:judged from it, the gravitational field of the earth (in its entirety)
SEQ:Relativity:Numerous
EVI:Type:medium) of the type of Newton’s law of gravitation.
SEQ:Thoughtful:Physicist
EVI:Measure:spherical surface. We can specially measure up the area (_F_) of this
SEQ:Compared:Standard
EVI:Works:distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
SEQ:More:Quickly
EVI:Question:equivalent. As a result of this discussion, a most interesting question
EVI:Series:the form of a series, we obtain
CON:Simply
SEQ:Consideration:Regarded
EVI:Time:the rod lie with respect to _K_ at a particular time _t_ of the system
SEQ:Works:Reports
EVI:Chest:take part in the accelerated motion of the chest, and it transmits this
EVI:Laws:you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
EVI:Important:process; for it slurs over the important part played by intuition and
SEQ:Based:Specification
EVI:Check:are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws
EVI:Description:description of position, it should be possible by means of numerical
EVI:Show:since calculations show that the metrics of surrounding space is
SEQ:Other:Parts
CON:Circumference
REL:Likely:Arise
EVI:Section:Part from the difficulty discussed in Section XXI, there is a second
SEQ:Logical:Connection
SEQ:Must:Pass
SEQ:Transformation:Give
CON:Inclined
EVI:Matter:electromagnetic structure of matter. This circumstance, however, does
EVI:Need:assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™’s
SEQ:Permits:Answering
EVI:Form:the form of the natural extension of the special principle of
SEQ:Largest:Possible
EVI:Literary:Literary Archive Foundation.”
SEQ:Instance:Reaching
SEQ:Make:Facts
EVI:Section:It is clear that we have the problem of Section VI again before us. The
EVI:Considered:_i.e._ the work, considered negatively, which must be performed on the
SEQ:Tacit:Assumptions
SEQ:Others:These
EVI:Also:the stars and also individual stars of the stellar system are
EVI:Results:XV. General Results of the Theory
CON:Effects
EVI:Material:out from the following law: Material particles sufficiently far removed
EVI:Signal:Since the same light-signal has to be transmitted relative to _K′_ with
SEQ:External:Agency
EVI:Gutenberg:1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
EVI:Transformations:transformations. which corresponds to the replacement of the
SEQ:Cannot:Make
SEQ:Considerations:Hold
SEQ:Although:Always
CON:Creation
EVI:Processes:and the time _t_ of the events which constitute the processes of
EVI:Than:is nothing else than the energy possessed by the body[12] before it
EVI:Always:velocity of light always takes the place of instantaneous action at a
EVI:Kind:whatever kind of body he may happen to use for the experiment._
EVI:Gravitational:Now, as judged from the disc, the latter is in a gravitational field of
EVI:Relativity:present the fundamental ideas of the special theory of relativity.
EVI:Reference:by “motion relative to a practically rigid body of reference.” The
SEQ:Medium:Stored
EVI:Assistance:assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™’s
SEQ:Such:Conditions
SEQ:Different:Kind
CON:Links
EVI:Some:half a century ago, and which has been repeated since then by some of
EVI:Ordinates:called a “Galileian system of co-ordinates.” The laws of the mechanics
SEQ:Considered:Have
SEQ:Ought:Take
EVI:Mechanics:mechanics, but it had not been _interpreted_. A satisfactory
EVI:Whole:they are unable to leave it. Their whole universe of observation
EVI:Confirmation:III. The Experimental Confirmation of the General Theory of Relativity
SEQ:Dilemma:Section
SEQ:Both:Train
EVI:Snapshots:But from what has been said, the two snapshots must be identical; hence
EVI:Case:contained in electrodynamics as a limiting case; the laws of the latter
EVI:Result:potential φ, hence the result we have obtained will hold quite
EVI:Regard:are invariable with regard to time. No fairer destiny could be allotted
SEQ:Reality:Description
SEQ:Cannot:Attach
SEQ:Always:Same
CON:Request
SEQ:West:Africa
SEQ:Bodies:Velocity
SEQ:Gravitation:Derivable
EVI:Invisible:sun that the stars situated near the sun’s disc are invisible. The
SEQ:Copies:Project
SEQ:Claim:Right
EVI:Propositions:ourselves compelled to admit, all remaining propositions are shown to
SEQ:Until:Have
EVI:Point:From a systematic theoretical point of view, we may imagine the process
CON:Maintain
EVI:Minkowski:Minkowski, which was only vaguely indicated in Section XVII. In
SEQ:Light:Longer
CON:Detail
SEQ:Parallel:Those
EVI:Manner:exactly the same manner in a gravitational field (_in vacuo_), when
SEQ:Brought:Light
SEQ:Limitation:Forth
SEQ:Relative:Less
SEQ:Sent:Along
EVI:Already:In Section XXII it has been already mentioned that according to the
SEQ:Experience:Point
EVI:Events:individual events relative to both reference-bodies, such that every
REL:Newsletter:Hear
REL:Table:Results
REL:Measurable:Well
EVI:Pronounce:certainly regard everyone with disdain who should pronounce even the
EVI:Such:have never revealed such anisotropic properties in terrestrial physical
CON:These
EVI:Motion:condition of motion of the body of reference.
EVI:Points:(world), relative to which points at rest remain at rest and points in
CON:Apart
EVI:General:(_a_) The required generalisation must likewise satisfy the general
EVI:Still:require to extend our ideas of the space-time continuum still farther.
EVI:Body:is nothing else than the energy possessed by the body[12] before it
SEQ:Further:Physical
SEQ:Time:Difference
EVI:Considerable:1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
EVI:Until:themselves clearly until this construction is extended over a
EVI:Connection:nature. In this connection we did not obtain the Galilei
EVI:Suggests:that suggests itself to us is surely this: As regards space (and time)
SEQ:Near:Choose
EVI:Points:four-dimensional points.
SEQ:Logical:Unity
EVI:Have:the special theory of relativity and to which we have already
EVI:Between:discard this assumption, then the conflict between the law of the
EVI:What:end (the end of the rod) coincides with the point _x′_ = 1. What is the
SEQ:Reconciled:Negative
SEQ:Time:Require
SEQ:Velocity:Must
CON:Convincing
SEQ:True:Eventually
EVI:Relativity:shows that also from the standpoint of the theory of relativity this
SEQ:When:Rest
EVI:Body:might also interpret his experience thus: “My body of reference (the
EVI:Owner:trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
EVI:Similar:If we apply quite similar considerations to light rays which are being
SEQ:Translatory:Motion
CON:Assumptions
EVI:Whatsoever:requiring any special hypothesis whatsoever as to the structure and the
EVI:Among:ideas among themselves.
EVI:States:While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
EVI:Prevailing:propagation of light. With this and with a second difficulty prevailing
SEQ:Meaning:Statement
SEQ:Special:Case
EVI:Manner:where _du_ and _dv_ signify very small numbers. In a similar manner we
CON:Neighbour
EVI:Gravitational:always choose another reference-body such that _no_ gravitational field
EVI:Table:at every position on the table. But our construction of squares must
EVI:Theory:*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK RELATIVITY: THE SPECIAL AND GENERAL THEORY ***
SEQ:Know:Place
EVI:These:proportional to it. Under these conditions, the natural laws satisfying
SEQ:Incomparably:More
SEQ:Should:Exceed
SEQ:Trajectory:Must
SEQ:Very:Satisfactory
EVI:Value:definite value of _u_ belongs to every point on the surface of the
CON:Eddington
SEQ:Bodies:Show
EVI:Uniformly:the same mechanical laws hold relatively to the non-uniformly moving
SEQ:Contintium:Accordance
SEQ:Same:Case
EVI:Experience:experience. We refer to the yearly movement of the apparent position of
SEQ:Well:Defined
EVI:Leave:they are unable to leave it. Their whole universe of observation
EVI:Radiate:diminishes to zero. At first, the straight lines which radiate from the
SEQ:Limited:Right
EVI:Obtain:obtain, as in Section VI,
SEQ:Dense:Companion
REL:Intensity:Direction
REL:Problem:Gravitation
SEQ:Copyright:Creating
SEQ:Form:Given
CON:Serious
EVI:Great:with a velocity _c_ = 300,000 km./sec. At all events we know with great
EVI:Paragraphs:must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
REL:System:Thought
EVI:Else:In view of this dilemma there appears to be nothing else for it than to
SEQ:Resolves:Itself
CON:Attending
EVI:Emitted:extra-galactic nebulae (“milky ways”), that the spectral lines emitted
EVI:Allow:long as this requirement is not satisfied, I allow myself to be
SEQ:Other:Particles
SEQ:World:Natural
EVI:Local:local variations of temperature, and with which we made acquaintance as
CON:Fast
EVI:Beautiful:special kind. This hope has been realised in the most beautiful manner.
CON:Contintium
SEQ:Unavoidable:Time
SEQ:Frequently:Without
SEQ:Ends:These
EVI:High:a high degree of approximation. Now if we use a system of co-ordinates
SEQ:Work:Order
CON:Readily
SEQ:Only:Considered
CON:Wood
EVI:Holding:light_, and that by systematically holding fast to both these laws a
SEQ:Arrived:Result
SEQ:Disturb:Quite
EVI:Energy:absorbed the energy _E_0.
EVI:Thus:number of lines of force which enters the sphere is thus proportional
SEQ:Relativity:According
EVI:Xvii:(SUPPLEMENTARY TO SECTION XVII)
EVI:Laws:equations which express the general laws of nature pass over into
EVI:Actual:such encounters constitute the only actual evidence of a time-space
EVI:Fourth:of its independence. This is shown by the fourth equation of the
EVI:Reason:able to state a reason why one of them is to be preferred to the
EVI:Same:the average everywhere the same. In other words: However far we might
EVI:Gravitation:According to Newtonian mechanics and Newton’s law of gravitation, a
EVI:Experience:justified on the grounds of experience in supposing his reference-body
EVI:Reference:material points with reference to _K′_ simply by mathematical
SEQ:Must:Paid
SEQ:Motion:Only
EVI:Gutenberg:1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
SEQ:Observers:Determines
SEQ:Deviations:Theory
EVI:Energy:question as to how the energy of a point-mass; depends on the velocity.
SEQ:Mean:Displacements
EVI:Confirmation:considered to some extent as a confirmation of the theory.
EVI:Means:_A priori_ it is by no means certain that this last measurement will
EVI:Theory:general theory of relativity, a ray of light will experience a
SEQ:Chased:About
SEQ:Stone:Each
EVI:Value:THE HEURISTIC VALUE OF THE THEORY OF RELATIVITY
CON:Dependent
EVI:Connection:this connection a Galileian reference-body serves as body of reference,
EVI:Solution:solution. Owing to the smallness of the effect in the case of the sun,
SEQ:Exact:Terms
EVI:Then:The distance between these points A and B is then measured by repeated
SEQ:Number:Drawn
EVI:Floor:body towards the floor of the chest is always of the same magnitude,
EVI:Matter:nature of the universe as a whole, if we treat the matter as being at
REL:Requirements:Paragraphs
EVI:Project:Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
EVI:Experiment:experiment would be unsuccessful. We shall suppose that the rods
CON:Rules
SEQ:Constant:According
EVI:Satisfies:_x_-axis. It satisfies the condition
EVI:Necessarily:ellipse of every planet round the sun must necessarily rotate in the
EVI:Follows:follows that:
EVI:Rods:experiment would be unsuccessful. We shall suppose that the rods
EVI:Perpendicular:placed perpendicular to this direction.
EVI:Embankment:embankment) he is hastening towards the beam of light coming from _B_,
SEQ:Refer:Motion
EVI:Works:increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
SEQ:Chest:General
EVI:Situated:property of being uniquely determined by two points situated on it. The
EVI:Arbitrarily:way. With every point of the continuum, we associate arbitrarily four
SEQ:Must:Supplemented
EVI:Transformation:Thus we have obtained the Lorentz transformation for events on the
REL:Theorem:Addition
EVI:Classes:But there are two classes of experimental facts hitherto obtained which
EVI:Distribution:Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
EVI:Reference:the body of reference. But we have just seen that this assumption is
EVI:Evident:already mentioned, this is self-evident, but it must not be confused
EVI:Case:solution. Owing to the smallness of the effect in the case of the sun,
SEQ:Call:Propositions
EVI:Expression:of the expression “coincidence in space.” This conception is
EVI:Euclidean:EUCLIDEAN CONTINUUM
EVI:Only:goes through two points. We can only say that Euclidean geometry deals
REL:Ought:Take
SEQ:Force:Gravitational
EVI:Justified:propositions interpreted in this way, since we are justified in asking
REL:Able:Interpret
EVI:Imagine:to imagine—after the manner of Faraday—that the magnet always calls
SEQ:Seconds:Somewhat
SEQ:Even:Experiment
SEQ:Prevailing:Gravitational
SEQ:Throughout:Consideration
SEQ:Consideration:Special
SEQ:Gutenberg:Contact
EVI:Frequency:will be somewhat less than the frequency of an atom of the same element
SEQ:Alternate:Format
EVI:Travelling:travelling train. Just when the flashes (as judged from the embankment)
SEQ:Dealt:Have
SEQ:Result:Observation
EVI:Hold:potential φ, hence the result we have obtained will hold quite
EVI:Exciting:of importance for its effect in exciting a field.
EVI:Embankment:the same occurrence as judged from the embankment (as reference-body).
SEQ:Holding:Hand
REL:Status:Compliance
EVI:Involves:space involves the use of a rigid body to which such events have to be
CON:Positions
SEQ:Clock:Permanently
CON:Claim
EVI:Exists:measuring-rods, are free to move in a _plane_. For them nothing exists
EVI:These:hold for these from those resulting on the basis of Euclidean plane
SEQ:Ideas:Simplest
EVI:Considered:originally considered. That we have not been accustomed to regard the
EVI:Velocities:XIII. Theorem of the Addition of Velocities. The Experiment of Fizeau
SEQ:Zero:However
CON:Says
EVI:Three:The results of the last three sections show that the apparent
EVI:Only:of energy should hold not only with reference to a co-ordinate system
EVI:Problem:present case we can divide the problem into parts by considering first
SEQ:Reference:Have
SEQ:Field:Under
SEQ:Uniformly:Such
SEQ:Space:Surface
SEQ:Beings:Finite
EVI:Mission:that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
EVI:Tells:number which tells us how often the rod has to be laid down is the
REL:Sufficient:Compensate
EVI:Gauss:a two-dimensional geometry, just as much as for a plane surface. Gauss
EVI:Insight:insight into the theory of Relativity to those readers who, from a
SEQ:Damaged:Disk
EVI:Before:used before. Let us consider a space time domain in which no
SEQ:Respect:Operation
EVI:Because:calculation is not possible in the case of the stars, because in
EVI:Little:which is determined by the arrangement of little rods.
EVI:Time:upon as the laws of electricity. At the present time we know that
SEQ:Limiting:Case
EVI:Distance:may indicate the distance (line-interval) between _P_ and _P′_, as
SEQ:Platz:Berlin
EVI:Following:for the following reason. As a result of the more careful study of
SEQ:Before:Consider
SEQ:First:Term
SEQ:Problem:Section
EVI:Positive:A light-signal, which is proceeding along the positive axis of _x_, is
CON:Radius
SEQ:Trajectory:Path
SEQ:Lines:Clock
EVI:Always:specifications of position must always be sought in accordance with the
EVI:Full:the other. Both are half full of water. I notice that steam is being
REL:Event:Those
SEQ:Lying:Between
CON:Dimensional
SEQ:Piece:Lead
SEQ:Motion:System
SEQ:Ordinate:Enters
EVI:Objection:the following objection: “Your definition would certainly be right, if
EVI:Should:But in addition to K, all bodies of reference _K′_ should be given
EVI:Project:production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
EVI:Compliance:works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
SEQ:Time:Note
EVI:Ours:considered in Section XXIV. In contrast to ours, the universe of these
SEQ:Example:Extension
EVI:Regards:magnitude of our sun. We might imagine that, as regards geometry, our
EVI:Involved:however, is not concerned with the relation of the ideas involved in it
EVI:Table:the table, it is possible quite naturally to maintain the point of view
REL:Times:Exceedingly
SEQ:Average:Everywhere
SEQ:Just:Here
SEQ:Table:Other
SEQ:Illustration:Following
SEQ:Later:Compared
SEQ:Experience:Conviction
EVI:Gave:experiment gave a negative result—a fact very perplexing to physicists.
REL:Should:Itself
EVI:Follows:“Euclidean” four-dimensional continuum, a result which follows from the
EVI:Theorem:which corresponds to the theorem of addition for velocities in one
EVI:Whether:It is an open question whether or not this effect exists, and at the
EVI:However:carriage) remains permanently at rest. With reference to it, however,
EVI:Correctly:order correctly to represent the diminution of gravitational action
EVI:Present:shall leave it here at present, and revert to it only towards the end
EVI:Agreement:(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
EVI:Paragraph:• You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
EVI:Amounted:during the eclipse and the comparison photographs amounted to a few
EVI:Space:law for the space-time magnitudes of an event when changing over from
CON:User
EVI:Auxiliary:introduction of an auxiliary hypothesis, which in itself—_i.e._ without
EVI:Rest:construction, and which are considered at rest with respect to the
SEQ:Course:Every
EVI:Case:In this case relations hold in the four-dimensional continuum which are
SEQ:Relativity:Teaches
EVI:Lorentz:ordinary and the accented magnitudes is given by the Lorentz
EVI:Depends:question as to how the energy of a point-mass; depends on the velocity.
SEQ:Position:Space
SEQ:Stars:Ought
EVI:Propagation:course much less. Let us inquire about the velocity of propagation of
EVI:Enters:We see from (12) that the imaginary time co-ordinate _x_4, enters into
SEQ:Natural:Consequence
REL:Structure:Space
EVI:Stars:observations of double stars, the Dutch astronomer De Sitter was also
CON:Contradict
SEQ:Calculated:Using
EVI:Centre:the sun and the planet. In such a system, the sun, or the common centre
SEQ:Simultaneously:Different
CON:Charities
EVI:Conclusion:train as their reference-body must therefore come to the conclusion
CON:However
EVI:Yielded:while the original “static” hypothesis of space yielded the closure
EVI:Motions:motions only in the case of electrons and ions; for other motions the
EVI:Necessary:necessary to take him from the one marked point to the other. Then the
SEQ:Being:Highest
SEQ:Following:Objection
EVI:Sphere:the sphere, which is impossible.
EVI:Plane:which they have access is in both cases practically plane, or
EVI:Determine:DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state
EVI:Bluish:pan before. But if I now notice a luminous something of bluish colour
EVI:Other:from other material particles continue to move uniformly in a straight
CON:Cease
SEQ:Times:These
EVI:Different:played a different and more independent rôle, as compared with the
SEQ:Charge:Reasonable
EVI:Refund:1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
EVI:Evinced:results the latter theory has hitherto evinced.
EVI:Retain:should retain the principle of relativity, which appeals so
EVI:Body:Galileian reference-body _K_, such a ray of light is transmitted
EVI:Then:of a special kind is then present with respect to these bodies (cf.
EVI:Electrodynamics:of relativity has grown out of electrodynamics and optics. In these
EVI:Such:such away, that the angle described by the radius sun-planet between
EVI:Electrodynamics:fundamental equations of the electrodynamics of Maxwell: A body moving
SEQ:Come:Deal
CON:Display
SEQ:Farther:Than
SEQ:Difficulties:Mentioned
SEQ:More:Following
EVI:Hope:all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
EVI:Principle:only in the sense of Doppler’s principle, as an expansive motion of the
SEQ:Show:Directly
CON:Amount
EVI:Reference:independent of the condition of motion of the body of reference.
EVI:Light:Galileian reference-body _K_, such a ray of light is transmitted
SEQ:Problem:Space
EVI:Project:agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
SEQ:Simple:Direct
REL:World:Physical
EVI:Question:the axioms. The question of “truth” of the individual geometrical
EVI:Mass:THE EQUALITY OF INERTIAL AND GRAVITATIONAL MASS AS AN ARGUMENT FOR THE
EVI:Times:observation during a total eclipse of the sun. At such times, these
CON:Online
SEQ:Hand:Coordinate
EVI:Literary:Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
SEQ:Require:Find
SEQ:Geometry:Deals
SEQ:Great:Importance
EVI:Previous:Thus all our previous conclusions based on general relativity would
EVI:Chosen:reference-body (mollusc) used in the description may be chosen.
CON:Title
EVI:Principle:THE PRINCIPLE OF RELATIVITY
SEQ:Motion:Continue
SEQ:Measuring:Rods
EVI:Living:Thus if the spherical surface beings are living on a planet of which
SEQ:Including:Outdated
SEQ:Main:Part
REL:Flashes:Lightning
SEQ:Satisfy:Same
SEQ:Statement:Called
EVI:Theory:﻿The Project Gutenberg eBook of Relativity: The Special and General Theory
SEQ:Accepting:Unsolicited
REL:Treatment:Donations
CON:Objective
SEQ:Connected:Fact
CON:Cosmological
EVI:Especially:[15] The objection is of importance more especially when the state of
EVI:Able:shows that we are able to construct the Lorentz transformation in this
EVI:Examination:detailed examination of the question shows that the curvature of light
EVI:Theorem:VI. The Theorem of the Addition of Velocities employed in Classical Mechanics
REL:Possibility:Discovering
SEQ:Travelling:Velocity
CON:Promotion
EVI:Simple:convincingly to the intellect because it is so natural and simple. The
EVI:Since:theory of gravitation.[18] But since the observer believes in the
SEQ:Gravitation:Still
EVI:Each:two theories differ from each other. As an example, a case of general
EVI:Abstraction:the power of abstraction of the reader.
EVI:Parts:universe will deviate in individual parts from the spherical, _i.e._
SEQ:Rods:Volume
EVI:Variables:(Galileian) reference-body _K_ by the space-time variables _x′, y′, z′,
SEQ:Those:Possessing
EVI:Every:definite value of _u_ belongs to every point on the surface of the
CON:Accepting
SEQ:Other:Point
EVI:System:_K_, but also with respect to every co-ordinate system _K′_ which is in
SEQ:Determined:Constructions
EVI:Chest:body towards the floor of the chest is always of the same magnitude,
EVI:Between:attraction between two masses diminishes more rapidly than would result
SEQ:Physical:Foundations
SEQ:Length:Judged
SEQ:First:Equation
EVI:Action:The action of the earth on the stone takes place indirectly. The earth
SEQ:Emission:Steam
EVI:Discard:discard this assumption, then the conflict between the law of the
SEQ:Time:Clocks
EVI:Gravitational:reference _K′_, our consideration also teaches us how the gravitational
CON:Agree
SEQ:Corner:Reference
EVI:Viii:VIII. On the Idea of Time in Physics
EVI:Extends:beings is two-dimensional; but, like ours, it extends to infinity. In
SEQ:Effects:Produced
SEQ:Regarded:Galileian
REL:Attempt:Apply
SEQ:Stage:General
SEQ:Display:Perform
EVI:Suppose:Suppose that the man in the chest fixes a rope to the inner side of the
EVI:Theory:existence, and in the theory of development which is based on the
EVI:Referred:same domain referred to a second body of reference _K′_, which is
CON:Realisation
SEQ:Does:Hold
SEQ:Body:Required
EVI:Ordinates:which can be described by co-ordinates such as _x1, y1, z1_, which may
SEQ:Namely:Conservation
SEQ:Representations:Concerning
EVI:Ideas:ideas among themselves.
CON:Supplemented
EVI:Similar:where _du_ and _dv_ signify very small numbers. In a similar manner we
CON:Faraday
CON:Registration
CON:Specific
CON:Empirical
EVI:Perfectly:of the surface one and only one curve must pass. Thus a perfectly
EVI:London:London”[3] I arrive at the following result. The earth is the rigid
EVI:Expresses:This equation expresses nothing else than the law of motion of the
EVI:Respect:reference-body _K′_ moving uniformly with respect to _K_, if we assume
EVI:Rails:along the rails with a constant velocity _v_, and that a man traverses
SEQ:Ensure:Differences
EVI:Less:course much less. Let us inquire about the velocity of propagation of
EVI:Arrive:“upwards,” in order to arrive at the corner of the square under
EVI:Contract:LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
EVI:Events:not only to _two_ events, but to as many events as we care to choose,
EVI:Must:entirely shun the vague word “space,” of which, we must honestly
EVI:Advent:Before the advent of relativity, physics recognised two conservation
SEQ:Place:Transmission
SEQ:Associated:Geometrical
SEQ:Have:Least
EVI:Forty:freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
EVI:Neither:rather admit that his mode of grasping the situation violates neither
REL:Clock:Moving
REL:Able:State
SEQ:Efforts:Hundreds
CON:Unavoidable
SEQ:Spread:Front
SEQ:Railway:Also
SEQ:Know:Space
EVI:Velocity:the motion of the raven would be one of different velocity and
SEQ:Square:Root
EVI:Rectilinear:Galileian law of the uniform rectilinear motion of “isolated” material
CON:Reach
SEQ:Supposing:Reference
SEQ:Only:Mention
EVI:Travelling:Let us suppose our old friend the railway carriage to be travelling
EVI:Retardation:this jerk to a “real” acceleration (retardation) of the carriage. He
SEQ:Thus:Require
REL:Consist:Negatively
EVI:Attribute:attribute the different behaviour of the two pans.
EVI:Much:electromagnetic phenomena can be theoretically represented much more
CON:Considering
CON:Planet
EVI:Obtained:nature, and was obtained by the use of particular hypotheses as to the
CON:Providing
EVI:Slab:that above with the marble slab), we should find that different laws
SEQ:Reference:System
SEQ:Galileian:System
SEQ:Illustration:Section
EVI:Condition:independent of the nature and the condition of the body and always the
EVI:Value:up to a maximum value which is determined by the “world-radius,” but
CON:Past
EVI:Positions:observations of the cloud from different positions on the ground, and
SEQ:Part:Heavens
EVI:Everywhere:the average everywhere the same. In other words: However far we might
EVI:Hitherto:Apart from this one, it has hitherto been possible to make only two
REL:Means:Similar
EVI:Before:before using this eBook.
EVI:Principle:The principle we have made use of not only maintains that we may
SEQ:Parallel:Direction
SEQ:Only:Lorentz
REL:Task:Testing
SEQ:Less:Than
SEQ:Light:Experience
EVI:Follows:immediately follows. If referred to the system _K′_, the propagation of
SEQ:Analyse:Place
EVI:Ordinate:forms, in which the time co-ordinate plays exactly the same role as the
CON:Table
SEQ:Latter:Property
EVI:Then:we then have
SEQ:Time:Observer
EVI:Relativity:and the general theory of relativity on the other. This agreement goes
EVI:Rods:XII. The Behaviour of Measuring-Rods and Clocks in Motion
SEQ:Deal:General
SEQ:Relations:Galileian
REL:Sure:Expect
EVI:Physical:the empirical physical foundations of the theory in a “step-motherly”
EVI:Together:they approach each other, and finally they run together again at a
SEQ:Relativity:Fundamental
SEQ:Time:Remedy
SEQ:Inquire:About
EVI:Down:number which tells us how often the rod has to be laid down is the
EVI:Event:law for the space-time magnitudes of an event when changing over from
EVI:Experience:conscientious teachers. By reason of our past experience, you would
SEQ:Possibility:Such
EVI:Already:However, already in the ’twenties, the Russian mathematician Friedman
EVI:Given:respect to _K_ are given? The relations must be so chosen that the law
SEQ:Constant:Connected
SEQ:Projected:Through
EVI:Manner:law, the motion would still take place in such a manner that the
EVI:Velocities:masses move with respect to the coordinate system with velocities which
EVI:Railway:positions relative to the body of reference (railway carriage or
SEQ:Equal:Equal
CON:Essentially
EVI:Settled:regard the matter as quite settled, because I feel constrained to raise
EVI:Possibility:INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
SEQ:Applicable:Euclidean
SEQ:Experience:Supposing
EVI:Light:the law of the transmission of light _in vacuo_ [in vacuum] must,
EVI:Dimensions:have been made, their lengths being small compared with the dimensions
REL:Beam:Light
SEQ:Lines:When
EVI:Bodies:with the distance from operative bodies. It is something like this: The
EVI:Have:we then have
EVI:Curvature:to wit, the curvature of light rays by the gravitational field of the
EVI:External:require any external agency for its maintenance, _e.g._ in the case
EVI:Reference:small amount. This non-rigid reference-body, which might appropriately
CON:Suggestion
EVI:Shall:question, I shall make use of a comparison.
SEQ:Distance:Relative
SEQ:Latter:Transformation
EVI:Analogous:our rods in experiments analogous to the one described above, then our
EVI:Played:played a different and more independent rôle, as compared with the
SEQ:Deductive:Thought
CON:Presents
EVI:Coordinate:Now let us refer this domain to a random Gauss coordinate system or to
EVI:Most:most out-of-the-way proposition of this science to be untrue. But
SEQ:Limitation:Imposed
EVI:Different:different places in such a manner that, if _A_ is simultaneous with
SEQ:Attending:Classical
EVI:Mistaken:on the range are two pans so much alike that one may be mistaken for
EVI:Surface:the surface by describing the latter as a continuum.
EVI:Similar:with respect to the body of reference. A similar difficulty presents
EVI:Being:reference-body which is not being pulled with a rope.
SEQ:Facts:Supplies
EVI:Points:points of the continuum so that we have simply
EVI:Maxwell:extent, that no other theory than that of Maxwell and Lorentz has been
SEQ:Divided:Measuring
SEQ:Galileian:Body
CON:Revert
SEQ:Note:Emitted
SEQ:Also:Relative
EVI:Alterations:alterations in form _ad lib._ during their motion. Clocks, for which
SEQ:Hitherto:Attracted
EVI:Carriage:carriage—a result contradictory to the principle of relativity.
EVI:Determined:possesses a finite volume, which is determined by its “radius”
SEQ:Transmission:Electromagnetic
SEQ:Indefinitely:Small
EVI:Impact:strings to the floor, otherwise the slightest impact against the floor
EVI:Specification:life. If I analyse the place specification “Trafalgar Square,
EVI:Recognised:between reference-bodies _K_ relative to which the recognised “laws of
EVI:Making:we cannot pursue this course. The epoch-making theoretical
EVI:Course:but in the course of time it would fill up an annular part of the
EVI:Appropriately:small amount. This non-rigid reference-body, which might appropriately
EVI:Action:intensity of the action on a body dimishes according to a quite
SEQ:Have:Purposely
SEQ:These:Particles
SEQ:Lines:Radiate
REL:Walks:Life
SEQ:Measuring:Straight
EVI:Definite:This is a definite mathematical condition that the theory of relativity
SEQ:Here:Following
EVI:Should:we should therefore expect that the direction of motion of the earth at
CON:Constructed
SEQ:Bodies:Reader
EVI:Fast:light_, and that by systematically holding fast to both these laws a
EVI:Conclusions:matter. Thus we can draw conclusions about the geometrical structure of
SEQ:Office:Located
EVI:Find:prime factor involved in this contraction we find, not the motion in
SEQ:Correctly:Electrostatic
EVI:Both:the other. Both are half full of water. I notice that steam is being
CON:Person
EVI:Reference:respect to the body of reference chosen in the particular case in
SEQ:Cannot:Contended
SEQ:Notices:Stone
CON:Ours
SEQ:Arbitrary:Shape
CON:According
EVI:Then:some one were to ask you: “What, then, do you mean by the assertion
SEQ:Disclaimer:Limitation
EVI:Expression:In consideration of the expression given above for the kinetic energy
EVI:Equivalent:be termed a “reference-mollusc”, is in the main equivalent to a
SEQ:Snapshot:Taken
EVI:Unbounded:XXXI. The Possibility of a “Finite” and yet “Unbounded” Universe
EVI:Case:respect to the body of reference chosen in the particular case in
EVI:Kind:those possessing motion of a different kind). In this sense we speak of
EVI:Under:are simultaneously (in the above sense) the same. Under these
SEQ:Consideration:Behave
EVI:Same:The same value _v_ can be obtained from equations (5), if we calculate
SEQ:Consequence:Deflection
SEQ:Proposition:Science
CON:Extraneous
EVI:Should:which this difference should have been clearly detectable. But the
SEQ:Favour:Validity
SEQ:Also:Moving
CON:Redistribution
SEQ:Necessary:Surmount
EVI:Assume:the present we shall assume the “truth” of the geometrical
SEQ:Hence:Imperfections
EVI:Coordinate:On the other hand, all coordinate systems _K′_ moving relatively to _K_
REL:Choice:Units
EVI:Clocks:definition of time. We have to imagine each of these clocks fixed at a
EVI:Lorentz:The validity of the Lorentz transformation follows from this condition.
SEQ:Dimensional:Line
SEQ:States:Copyright
SEQ:Distributing:Performing
EVI:Embankment:with respect to be embankment, we mean: the rays of light emitted at
EVI:Respect:respect to the second framework. Without committing any fundamental
EVI:Difference:estimated difference between these two times is exceedingly small,
REL:Equivalence:Different
SEQ:Degree:Certainty
SEQ:Hand:Connection
EVI:Task:undertook the task of treating this two-dimensional geometry from
EVI:Found:_x_-axis with respect to _K_, then we should have found that the length
EVI:Access:all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
EVI:Distances:Euclidean geometry hold for “distances;” the “distance” being
SEQ:Time:Velocity
EVI:Direction:direction, but that it would still be uniform and in a straight line.
EVI:Then:follow from those axioms, _i.e._ they are proven. A proposition is then
EVI:Favour:facts. Experiment[10] decides in favour of equation (B) derived from
EVI:Deflection:It may be added that, according to the theory, half of this deflection
SEQ:Almost:Sure
SEQ:Equation:Lorentz
EVI:Namely:hypothesis (2). Namely, the original field equations admit a solution
EVI:Cartesian:arbitrary? The method of Cartesian coordinates must then be discarded,
EVI:Independent:measures to make ourselves independent of the existence of marked
SEQ:Rest:Then
EVI:Also:an additional distance w relative to the carriage, and hence also
EVI:Elegantly:from the foregoing considerations, and which has been most elegantly
SEQ:Represents:Number
SEQ:Example:Dimensional
CON:Albert
CON:Merely
CON:Unimportant
CON:Small
EVI:Abide:(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
SEQ:Pulled:Rope
SEQ:Thought:Supplement
SEQ:During:Eclipse
SEQ:Present:Book
SEQ:Theorem:Also
EVI:Including:ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
EVI:Carefully:We must note carefully that the possibility of this mode of
EVI:Laws:what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
SEQ:Masses:Have
SEQ:Possible:Give
EVI:Know:with a velocity _c_ = 300,000 km./sec. At all events we know with great
EVI:Physicists:arises for astronomers and physicists, and that is whether the universe
SEQ:Points:Identical
EVI:Assumed:contrary. It has been assumed that all these clocks _go at the same
EVI:Other:their measuring-rods and other objects fit exactly on this surface and
EVI:Future:agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
SEQ:State:Laws
EVI:Hold:Unlike the first, this latter statement need not of necessity hold _a
EVI:Spatial:transformations in the special sense and from purely spatial
SEQ:Events:Clear
EVI:Therefore:therefore follows that the length of a rigid metre-rod moving in the
CON:Circles
EVI:Identically:To start with, he places one of two identically constructed clocks at
EVI:Also:any moment would enter into the laws of nature, and also that physical
EVI:Special:basis of theory. The special theory of relativity has rendered the
EVI:Object:referred, supplemented in such a manner that the object whose position
REL:Much:Favour
REL:Discussion:Appendix
SEQ:Xxii:Already
EVI:Cloud:the nature of our specification of position. If, for instance, a cloud
EVI:Action:velocity of light always takes the place of instantaneous action at a
CON:Conscience
EVI:Stone:parabolic curve. I now ask: Do the “positions” traversed by the stone
EVI:Same:the same velocity as along the length _B_ → _M_. But an examination of
SEQ:Approrimately:Same
EVI:Compressed:compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
SEQ:Through:Surface
SEQ:Harmony:Theory
SEQ:Instance:Impossible
SEQ:Moreover:Shall
EVI:Provided:provided that:
EVI:Under:Under these conditions, the _u_-curves and _v_-curves are straight
EVI:Distance:relative to the embankment, in this second, the distance w being
EVI:Condition:condition of motion of the body of reference.
SEQ:Solved:Means
EVI:Consequence:theory of relativity. As a consequence, I am guilty of a certain
EVI:Sent:payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
EVI:Theory:III. The Experimental Confirmation of the General Theory of Relativity
EVI:Reduced:original velocity in the backwards direction is continuously reduced.”
EVI:Convention:represented physically by means of the convention of two marks on a
CON:Detection
EVI:Manner:continuum in an arbitrary manner to Gauss co-ordinates. We assign to
SEQ:Continuum:Same
EVI:Discussion:Euclidean. It follows directly from this discussion, that for our
REL:Have:Check
EVI:Laws:others; for any one of these laws would be founded just as little on
EVI:User:License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
EVI:Mass:general neither the mass _M_ nor the radius _r_ are known.
SEQ:Found:Satisfy
EVI:Formulate:formulate the general laws of nature as they are obtained from
EVI:Than:laws would hold than with respect to _K0_. This diminished simplicity
EVI:Body:(_a_) the embankment as reference-body,
EVI:Particular:Up to now our considerations have been referred to a particular body of
EVI:Those:the influence of the gravitational field on the course of all those
EVI:Points:straight line. Three points _A, B_ and _C_ on a rigid body thus lie in
EVI:View:If we desire to adhere to our “old-time” three-dimensional view of
EVI:Course:all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
CON:Available
EVI:Group:Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
CON:Reaching
EVI:Chest:Suppose that the man in the chest fixes a rope to the inner side of the
SEQ:Basal:Principle
EVI:Leverrier:planet which lies nearest the sun. Since the time of Leverrier, it has
SEQ:Original:Plain
EVI:Possible:In order to attain the greatest possible clearness, let us return to
CON:Pulled
SEQ:Application:Brakes
EVI:Differences:differences _dx, dy, dz_ and the time-difference _dt_. With reference
SEQ:Include:Events
SEQ:Body:Then
EVI:When:of rays of light can only take place when the velocity of propagation
EVI:Must:we must then express _x′_ and _t′_ in terms of _x_ and _t_, making use
SEQ:Space:Made
EVI:Effect:be correct to within a few seconds of arc. This effect can be explained
EVI:Dare:at the root of things, I dare not withhold it from the reader. We
REL:Body:Something
EVI:Only:of this expansion which lies “only” about 109 years ago, while physical
EVI:Presentation:even in a popular presentation of the subject.
EVI:Call:If we call _v_ the velocity with which the origin of _K′_ is moving
EVI:Result:possible answer seems to result from the following consideration: If
CON:Fulfilled
EVI:Facts:facts, supplies us then with that particular law of motion which has
SEQ:Being:Measurable
EVI:Relative:by “motion relative to a practically rigid body of reference.” The
EVI:Postulate:general postulate of relativity (Section XXIII).
EVI:Altering:we can free ourselves from both of these limitations without altering
EVI:Defined:embankment) have already been defined in detail in the preceding
EVI:Necessary:was necessary to surmount a serious difficulty, and as this lies deep
SEQ:Country:Addition
SEQ:Time:System
SEQ:Possible:Relative
EVI:Introduce:introduce the hypothesis that the force of attraction between mutually
SEQ:Manner:Simply
SEQ:Outwards:Radial
EVI:Description:This applies not only to scientific description, but also to everyday
CON:Precisely
SEQ:Equipment:Including
EVI:Light:eccentricity, _c_ the velocity of light, and _T_ the period of
EVI:Other:most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
CON:Infinite
EVI:Extent:consider the extent of its limitation.
CON:Determines
EVI:Interpreted:nebulae. This can be interpreted in regard to our present knowledge
EVI:Then:gravitational potential does not exist, then the general theory of
EVI:Number:with respect to _K_. If _v_0, represents the number of ticks of the
REL:Considerations:Sections
EVI:Difficult:clothes. Minkowski’s work is doubtless difficult of access to anyone
SEQ:Island:Infinite
EVI:Points:property of being uniquely determined by two points situated on it. The
REL:Purpose:Mechanics
EVI:During:increasing values of the radius. During this process the area of the
EVI:Masses:which the electrical masses are quite at rest relatively to each other,
SEQ:Statement:Than
EVI:Large:an infinitely large number to be drawn, all of which correspond to real
EVI:Creating:distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
EVI:Mysterious:The non-mathematician is seized by a mysterious shuddering when he
SEQ:Numbers:Gaussian
SEQ:Know:Great
EVI:Space:position in space with “time.” I should load my conscience with grave
EVI:Along:man walking along the carriage, or of the moving point in the present
REL:Attaching:Classical
EVI:Coincides:body (body of reference) with which that event or object coincides.
EVI:Concerns:concerns the investigation of the laws satisfied by the gravitational
EVI:Newtonian:first approximation the Newtonian theory. Thus the latter theory is
EVI:Project:1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
EVI:Acceleration:(Force) = (inertial mass) x (acceleration),
EVI:Concept:Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
EVI:Notion:These inadequate remarks can give the reader only a vague notion of the
EVI:System:the rod lie with respect to _K_ at a particular time _t_ of the system
EVI:Straight:are in a position to say: The stone traverses a straight line relative
EVI:Relativity:relativity, on the other hand, by application of _arbitrary
EVI:Number:statements of a large number of individual observations in the form of
EVI:Leave:perhaps this feeling of proud certainty would leave you immediately if
EVI:Takes:stars and systems of stars takes considerably longer. It is in no way
EVI:Greater:considerable, the greater is the radius of the circle in comparison
EVI:Appendix:APPENDIX III
EVI:Than:attraction between two masses diminishes more rapidly than would result
SEQ:Presents:Insurmountable
EVI:Understand:It is not difficult to understand why, in spite of this, we feel
SEQ:Reason:Past
EVI:Four:four-dimensional continuum, are defined physically in a simple manner,
EVI:Represent:individual rods always represent the same distance, independently of
EVI:Should:_mechanics_. But that a principle of such broad generality should hold
EVI:Result:The extension of this result, to include events which take place
SEQ:Indisputable:Light
EVI:Gratefully:International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
SEQ:Case:More
EVI:When:when the reference-body is rotating uniformly.
SEQ:Space:Point
EVI:Investigations:spectrum are certainly revealed by statistical investigations of the
REL:Notice:Included
EVI:Sufficiently:sufficiently obvious to ensure that differences of opinion are
EVI:Mathematical:co-ordinates,” which is a useful idea for mathematical description, we
EVI:Royalty:Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
CON:Forms
SEQ:Character:Three
SEQ:Pains:Endeavour
REL:Upon:Cannot
SEQ:Point:Moving
SEQ:Such:Things
EVI:Wherever:train. An event, wherever it may have taken place, would be fixed in
EVI:Lorentz:Lorentz transformation.
EVI:Earlier:that the lightning flash _B_ took place earlier than the lightning
EVI:Order:order correctly to represent the diminution of gravitational action
EVI:Extension:The extension of this result, to include events which take place
CON:Lucidity
EVI:Reality:situated. Now in reality (considered with reference to the railway
CON:Smile
SEQ:Physically:Simple
CON:Publisher
SEQ:Able:Disregard
EVI:Then:is Euclidean, then _F_ = 4π_r_2; if it is spherical, then _F_ is always
EVI:Magnetic:something being what we call a “magnetic field.” In its turn this
EVI:Distance:Pure “space-distance” of two events with respect to _K_ results in
EVI:Occupies:the solar system occupies only a negligibly small part of the spherical
EVI:Velocity:to _K′_. In short, we can designate _v_ as the relative velocity of the
SEQ:Given:Away
EVI:Neighbourhood:number of points in the neighbourhood of this one, the position of
EVI:What:rope attached, and now a “being” (what kind of a being is immaterial to
EVI:Such:nature. Such a finite material universe would be destined to become
EVI:Meaning:briefly consider how this unification came about, and what meaning is
SEQ:Require:Extend
SEQ:Parabola:Moreover
EVI:Embankment:the embankment through a distance _v_ equal numerically to the velocity
SEQ:Compared:Reality
EVI:Place:which takes place anywhere can be localised with reference to this
EVI:Identical:identical construction will go at different rates when situated at
EVI:Argument:We now proceed to the second argument, to which, moreover, we shall
EVI:Density:proportional to the mass _m_. If, on the average, the mass density ρ0
SEQ:Same:Galileian
EVI:States:against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
REL:Disclaimers:Certain
SEQ:Every:General
REL:Admit:Being
SEQ:Clearly:Detectable
SEQ:Assumption:Physical
EVI:Motion:formulated—a law which not only explains the motion of the stars
SEQ:Quite:Accordance
SEQ:Orbital:Ellipse
EVI:Means:clocks has by no means the same degree of plausibility as in the
EVI:Equations:the fourth of the equations given in Section XI.
SEQ:Rigid:Connection
SEQ:Universe:Have
EVI:General:XV. General Results of the Theory
SEQ:Transformation:Section
REL:Modification:Complication
EVI:Exactly:standing in the chest in exactly the same way as anyone stands in a
EVI:Circle:orbital plane, viz. between the circle of least and the circle of
EVI:Means:define exactly the co-ordinates _x, y, z_ relative to the disc by means
CON:Viewing
EVI:Mechanics:the defect attaching to classical mechanics which was brought to light
SEQ:Earth:Releases
CON:Infinitely
EVI:Sense:electron (rigid connection in the sense of classical mechanics), we
CON:Diverge
EVI:Ebook:This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
CON:Countries
SEQ:Already:Mentioned
EVI:Both:of atom).[23] These two deductions from the theory have both been
CON:Shift
EVI:Relative:_K′_. For the relative orientation in space of the co-ordinate systems
CON:Curvature
EVI:Considered:respect to the carriage must not be considered equal to the duration of
EVI:Possible:theoretical point of view. He realized that it was possible to preserve
EVI:Independent:is independent of the choice of the body of reference. We call the
SEQ:Energy:Then
SEQ:Given:Amount
SEQ:Must:Return
SEQ:Adding:Subtracting
SEQ:Occurrence:Judged
EVI:Distribution:production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
SEQ:Right:Hand
REL:Respect:Each
SEQ:Unless:Told
EVI:Question:principle of relativity, and the question arises: How have we to modify
EVI:Space:adjacent clocks (in space) differ from each other by an indefinitely
SEQ:Mechanics:Only
EVI:Somewhat:[14] Cf. the somewhat more detailed discussion in Appendix II.
EVI:Distance:ON THE RELATIVITY OF THE CONCEPTION OF DISTANCE
SEQ:Beings:Living
SEQ:Field:Absent
EVI:Doubt:any doubt to arise as to the prime importance of the Galileian
SEQ:Gutenberg:Located
SEQ:Other:Theory
SEQ:Same:Manner
SEQ:Light:Following
EVI:Juncture:this juncture the question of the validity of the principle of
EVI:Below:electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.
SEQ:Transformations:Satisfy
SEQ:Appendix:Added
SEQ:Finite:Fact
EVI:Presentation:broad basis for the theoretical presentation of all physical phenomena,
SEQ:Sphere:Volume
EVI:Passing:we should expect that a ray of light which is passing close to a
SEQ:Irregularly:Curved
SEQ:Those:Have
EVI:Theory:making use of the theory of relativity—appears extraneous.
EVI:Space:result of an analysis of the physical conceptions of time and space, it
SEQ:Body:Reference
EVI:Phenomena:electromagnetic phenomena, we have come to regard action at a distance
EVI:Provide:Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
EVI:Transformation:velocity of light _c_ in the latter transformation.
SEQ:Find:Deductions
EVI:Direct:LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
SEQ:Since:Time
EVI:Regard:The analogy with (12) is a complete one. We can regard Minkowski’s
SEQ:Discovered:Reported
SEQ:Accented:System
SEQ:Direction:According
SEQ:Must:Make
EVI:Remain:(world), relative to which points at rest remain at rest and points in
EVI:Expression:neither takes up nor sends out energy. Writing the expression for the
REL:Order:Find
SEQ:Conveys:Every
EVI:Introducing:By adding (or subtracting) equations (3) and (4), and introducing for
EVI:Variation:course from the theory of Newton, a small variation from the
EVI:Previous:If the reader has followed all our previous considerations, he will
SEQ:Goes:Through
EVI:Stars:stationary with respect to the fixed stars, but that it rotates
SEQ:Believes:Knows
EVI:Galileian:continuum, has the same value for all selected (Galileian)
SEQ:Points:Under
EVI:Accuracy:relativity must therefore apply with great accuracy in the domain of
SEQ:Time:Data
SEQ:Empty:Space
SEQ:Representation:Help
EVI:Circle:circle, _i.e._ a self-contained line of definite finite length, which
EVI:Ordinate:_differences_, and thus also for co-ordinate differentials
EVI:Same:the same occurrence as judged from the embankment (as reference-body).
EVI:Field:(“cosmological term of the field equations”).
EVI:Owing:is the index of refraction of the liquid. On the other hand, owing to
EVI:Farther:farther until he is fully convinced on this point.)
SEQ:Connected:Moving
EVI:Propagation:of rays of light can only take place when the velocity of propagation
SEQ:Diverge:Farther
SEQ:Money:Paid
SEQ:Mass:Also
EVI:Consider:however, that this anxiety is unfounded. Let us consider, for instance,
EVI:Reference:nature” can be said to hold, and reference-bodies _K_ relative to which
EVI:Same:The theory of relativity leads to the same law of motion, without
EVI:Supposition:him on the supposition of a gravitational field, and he would not be
EVI:Reference:with respect to the accelerated reference-body _K′_ (chest). This
SEQ:Works:Based
EVI:Obtained:that is capable of being obtained by the delicacy of observation
EVI:Individual:of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
SEQ:Employee:Foundation
EVI:Known:been known that the ellipse corresponding to the orbit of Mercury,
CON:Classical
EVI:Most:_K0_ throughout the whole year. However, the most careful observations
SEQ:Chest:Must
CON:Unchanged
SEQ:Centre:Than
SEQ:Equation:According
SEQ:Relativity:Only
REL:Continues:Take
EVI:Intervention:as a process impossible without the intervention of some intermediary
SEQ:Behave:Approximately
SEQ:Decision:Being
EVI:Velocity:compared with the velocity of light. We have experience of such rapid
CON:Situation
SEQ:These:Results
EVI:Both:in both cases. This can also be expressed as follows: For the physical
EVI:Ordinates:co-ordinate systems.” For these systems, the four co-ordinates _x, y,
EVI:Material:material and a psychological nature aroused by the war, these societies
SEQ:Line:Also
EVI:Distribution:the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
REL:Body:Mass
EVI:Also:for the co-ordinates themselves are valid also for co-ordinate
EVI:Shorter:of a metre. The rigid rod is thus shorter when in motion than when at
EVI:Favoured:“specially favoured” (unique) co-ordinate system to occasion the
EVI:Kinetic:acceleration. If we develop the expression for the kinetic energy in
EVI:Include:grounds for extending the principle of relativity to include bodies of
EVI:Circular:the centre of the circular disc, and the other on the edge of the disc,
EVI:Amounts:amounts to about two millionths of the wave-length. A trustworthy
SEQ:Have:General
EVI:Body:[6] That is, a curve along which the body moves.
CON:Played
CON:External
SEQ:Speaking:About
SEQ:Doubt:Arise
SEQ:Characterise:Development
EVI:Special:SPECIAL THEORY OF RELATIVITY UNSATISFACTORY?
EVI:Light:law of the propagation of light _in vacuo_ would then have to be
EVI:Pleased:I am very pleased with this suggestion, but for all that I cannot
EVI:Question:question should take place—as judged from _K′_—in accordance with the
CON:Disclaim
EVI:Dimensional:about the finite or infinite character of (three-dimensional) space,
EVI:Similar:behaviour of the electron. We arrived at a similar conclusion in
SEQ:Upon:Request
SEQ:Such:Light
EVI:Recently:Most recently updated: May 2, 2023
SEQ:Used:Distance
SEQ:Domain:Relative
SEQ:Mass:Heavenly
EVI:Doubted:of which will hardly be doubted without empirical evidence to the
EVI:Very:is very powerful argument in favour of the principle of relativity.
EVI:Implies:of the principle of relativity implies the _necessity_ of the law of
SEQ:Unique:States
EVI:Nothing:this way, so that our consideration supplies us with nothing
SEQ:Rods:Made
EVI:Central:rods on the central region of the table expand, whereas those on the
SEQ:Mass:Thus
EVI:Years:A few years later Hubble showed, by a special investigation of the
SEQ:Stars:Also
CON:Left
SEQ:Events:Took
EVI:Regard:field which is constant with regard to time. Of course he will be
SEQ:Applying:Definition
SEQ:Also:Already
EVI:Easily:traversed the whole spherical space. It is easily seen that the
EVI:Small:small for the gravitational fields at our disposal in practice, its
SEQ:Symbol:Then
EVI:Study:for the following reason. As a result of the more careful study of
SEQ:Rigid:Thus
EVI:Constant:is a “surface of constant curvature.”
SEQ:Dutch:Astronomer
CON:Extending
SEQ:Empirical:Laws
REL:Have:Insert
EVI:Resulted:resulted in physicists becoming convinced that there are no such things
EVI:Beings:Flat beings with flat implements, and in particular flat rigid
CON:Print
SEQ:Unit:Lengths
EVI:Holds:hand, the principle of relativity holds true and that on the other hand
SEQ:Accordance:Section
SEQ:Again:Quite
SEQ:Value:Theory
EVI:Printed:Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may
EVI:Latter:magnetic field operates on the piece of iron, so that the latter
EVI:Action:distance or of action at a distance with an infinite velocity of
EVI:Visually:90°) which allows him visually to observe both places _A_ and _B_ at
SEQ:Galileian:Domain
EVI:Solar:obtain photographs of the solar eclipse of 29th May, 1919. The relative
EVI:Respect:carriage, traverses the same distance also with respect to the
EVI:Respect:of _uniform rectilinear and non-rotary motion_ with respect to _K_; all
EVI:Where:where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
SEQ:Particular:Velocity
EVI:Same:Thus the body has the same energy as a body of mass
EVI:Project:distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
SEQ:Seconds:Effect
EVI:Ours:beings is two-dimensional; but, like ours, it extends to infinity. In
EVI:Conservation:conservation of the mass of a system becomes identical with the law of
CON:Office
SEQ:Under:Terms
EVI:Natural:foundation for the physical description of all natural phenomena. At
EVI:Located:1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
CON:Yield
EVI:Clocks:measuring-rods and clocks, arranged rigidly with respect to one
EVI:Updated:Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will
EVI:Relations:“size-relations” (“distances” between neighbouring points) are defined.
SEQ:Have:Gained
EVI:Radius:every fixed star describes a circle of immense radius in the course of
EVI:Else:space means nothing else than that we imagine an epitome of our “space”
SEQ:Comparison:Before
EVI:Equation:[25] For the radius _R_ of the universe we obtain the equation
SEQ:Manner:Experience
SEQ:Light:Star
SEQ:Slab:Longer
EVI:Appendix:APPENDIX IV
CON:Transmits
EVI:More:consideration behave more nearly like a Euclidean system, the smaller
EVI:Longer:completely determined. But I am now no longer able to adjust the
EVI:Theory:This is a definite mathematical condition that the theory of relativity
SEQ:Lightning:Struck
EVI:Body:“reference-body” and derivable from them; only _experience_ can decide
EVI:Anyone:freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
SEQ:Place:Require
EVI:Axis:A light-signal, which is proceeding along the positive axis of _x_, is
EVI:Experiment:confirmed by experiment.
EVI:Average:quasi-Euclidean universe the average density of matter would
EVI:State:whatever may be its state of motion.
EVI:Three:three-dimensional “space” of (Euclidean) analytical geometry. If we
EVI:Within:represented by formula (B) to within one per cent.
EVI:Manner:referred, supplemented in such a manner that the object whose position
REL:Generations:Come
EVI:Magnetic:In contrast to electric and magnetic fields, the gravitational field
EVI:Force:(Force) = (gravitational mass) x (intensity of the gravitational
SEQ:Considerations:Able
SEQ:Theory:Called
EVI:Shall:shall hardly be able to compare the results of the previous section
SEQ:Stated:Nothing
EVI:These:the surface. These satisfy the same conditions as the _u_-curves, they
SEQ:Hand:Principle
EVI:Gutenberg:Gutenberg™ License.
SEQ:Small:Numbers
EVI:Emitting:which is emitting spectral lines as a clock, so that the following
SEQ:Certain:Ordinate
SEQ:Facts:Hitherto
SEQ:Forward:Difficult
EVI:Based:reference to the circular disc _K′_, these definitions being based on
EVI:Other:perpendicular to each other marked out, and designated as “co-ordinate
EVI:Differ:differ from 360°. The line of the orbit would not then be a closed one
CON:Beings
EVI:Dividing:with his measuring-rod and then the diameter of the disc, on dividing
EVI:Express:We advance a step farther in our generalisation when we express the
EVI:Light:In the example of the transmission of light just dealt with, we have
CON:Points
CON:Primitive
EVI:Note:[Note] The equation E = mc2 has been thoroughly proved time and again
SEQ:Works:Nearly
SEQ:Transformation:Rectangular
SEQ:Version:Posted
SEQ:Actions:Distance
SEQ:System:Michelson
EVI:Place:velocity of light always takes the place of instantaneous action at a
EVI:Simultaneous:simultaneous _relatively to the train?_ We shall show directly that the
REL:Means:Classical
REL:State:Motion
SEQ:Contrast:Wish
EVI:Space:space with respect to the earth. For owing to the alteration in
EVI:Stage:one, for reasons which will become evident at a later stage.
REL:Reference:Other
EVI:Conditions:conditions we understand by the “time” of an event the reading
EVI:Check:you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
EVI:Primitive:This primitive method of place specification deals only with places on
EVI:Treatment:any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
EVI:Able:classical mechanics was able to establish successfully the conservation
EVI:Experiment:experiment, we recognise that there must also be cases in which the
CON:Invalidates
EVI:Used:motion. Returning to the illustration we have frequently used of the
EVI:Designate:to _K′_. In short, we can designate _v_ as the relative velocity of the
EVI:Wanderer:wanderer who was unable to see the forest for the trees. May the book
EVI:Grounds:justified on the grounds of experience in supposing his reference-body
SEQ:Existence:Reality
EVI:Whether:universe, they have no means of determining whether they are living in
SEQ:Method:Applied
SEQ:Also:Lead
SEQ:Floor:Then
EVI:Electronic:1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
SEQ:Shall:Have
EVI:Following:out from the following law: Material particles sufficiently far removed
REL:Observe:Happen
SEQ:Astronomers:Eddington
EVI:Connected:ρ is the average density of the matter and _k_ is a constant connected
SEQ:Terms:Imposed
EVI:Event:train. An event, wherever it may have taken place, would be fixed in
EVI:Agreement:agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
EVI:Original:electrodynamics of Maxwell-Lorentz, on which the original theory was
SEQ:Following:Pages
EVI:Circle:surface, the ratio of the circumference of a circle to its diameter,
EVI:Theoretical:gravitational field in a purely theoretical manner. Let us suppose, for
EVI:Gauss:According to Gauss, this combined analytical and geometrical mode of
SEQ:Relativity:Since
EVI:Deductions:consider these important deductions, and we shall also discuss the
EVI:Laws:part, however, this modification affects only the laws for rapid
EVI:These:equal to a constant _c_. By uniting these two postulates we obtained
EVI:Theory:of deductions from the special theory of relativity, and in themselves
EVI:Four:relative position of which in the four-dimensional continuum is given
SEQ:These:Terms
EVI:Draw:Nevertheless we must now draw attention to the fact that a theory of
CON:Distinguish
SEQ:Added:Without
SEQ:Arrive:Exact
CON:Viewed
EVI:Spherical:the spherical beings can determine the radius of their universe
SEQ:Reality:Limit
SEQ:Geometrical:Ideas
EVI:Theory:insight into the theory of Relativity to those readers who, from a
EVI:Never:have never revealed such anisotropic properties in terrestrial physical
EVI:Reason:reason nor known mechanical laws. Even though it is being accelerated
EVI:Refers:resolves itself into a number of statements, each of which refers to
SEQ:Attainable:Present
EVI:Either:surprised at this, even if I have never seen either a gas range or a
EVI:Experience:experience which support the electromagnetic theory also support the
EVI:Placed:Evershed and Schwarzschild on the cyanogen bands, have placed the
SEQ:Situation:Violates
EVI:Universe:these beings say their universe is “plane,” there is sense in the
EVI:Have:which they have access is in both cases practically plane, or
SEQ:Most:Intelligible
CON:Ascii
REL:Piece:Lead
EVI:Stars:fixed stars; but up to the present the examination of the available
SEQ:Many:Numbers
EVI:Nearly:consideration behave more nearly like a Euclidean system, the smaller
EVI:Word:because by the word “true” we are eventually in the habit of
EVI:Considered:THE SPACE-TIME CONTINUUM OF THE SPECIAL THEORY OF RELATIVITY CONSIDERED
SEQ:Field:Course
EVI:Assumed:been assumed in physics that the statement of time had an absolute
CON:Association
EVI:Infinite:a finite or in an infinite universe, because the “piece of universe” to
SEQ:Proportional:Increase
EVI:Lorentz:Mathematically, we can characterise the generalised Lorentz
SEQ:Axes:Both
EVI:Points:Adjacent points correspond to adjacent values of the coordinates. If a
EVI:Known:reference to _K_ is known from the special theory of relativity,
EVI:Equal:necessarily also equal to _w_.
EVI:Service:Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification
EVI:Always:body towards the floor of the chest is always of the same magnitude,
EVI:More:rest, and the more quickly it is moving, the shorter is the rod. For
CON:Pursuit
EVI:Already:experience? This question is not easily answered for the reason already
SEQ:Mass:Body
SEQ:After:Taking
SEQ:Introduce:Hypothesis
EVI:Different:train as measured from the embankment may be different from that
EVI:Request:request to explain to me the sense of the statement more precisely, you
CON:Diminish
EVI:Behaviour:behaviour of the electron. We arrived at a similar conclusion in
REL:Stone:Then
EVI:Must:conveys to us, every motion must be considered only as a relative
EVI:Theory:the empirical physical foundations of the theory in a “step-motherly”
SEQ:Arrangement:Remaining
SEQ:Medium:Discontinue
SEQ:Square:Under
SEQ:Motion:Instance
REL:Begin:Move
EVI:Leads:satisfactory because it leads to the result that the light emitted by
EVI:Suggestive:bring some one a few happy hours of suggestive thought!
EVI:Perhaps:Perhaps the reader will wonder why we have placed our “beings” on a
EVI:Experience:the spherical universe. Our experience is far from being sufficient to
SEQ:Marked:Designated
EVI:Unlike:Unlike the first, this latter statement need not of necessity hold _a
SEQ:Often:Created
EVI:When:When we say that the lightning strokes _A_ and _B_ are simultaneous
EVI:Original:the “Potzdammer Platz, Berlin,” which is referred to in the original.
EVI:Essentially:is associated with every event which is essentially capable of
SEQ:According:Classical
EVI:Identical:their universe there is room for an infinite number of identical
SEQ:Remained:Over
SEQ:Terms:License
EVI:Propositions:I. Physical Meaning of Geometrical Propositions
SEQ:These:Clocks
SEQ:Experience:Only
EVI:Disappearance:to (3), the disappearance of (_x_ – _ct_) involves the disappearance of
SEQ:Equations:Hold
EVI:Propagation:VII. The Apparent Incompatability of the Law of Propagation of Light with the Principle of Relativity
CON:Obscure
EVI:Systematically:light_, and that by systematically holding fast to both these laws a
SEQ:Theory:Conversant
EVI:World:(world), relative to which points at rest remain at rest and points in
CON:Dilemma
CON:Smoothly
EVI:Marks:represented physically by means of the convention of two marks on a
EVI:What:field of giving all bodies the same acceleration, or, what comes to the
EVI:Hear:subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
EVI:Spectrum:spectrum are certainly revealed by statistical investigations of the
EVI:Reasons:become reconciled to this negative result, for reasons now to be
EVI:Ordinates:_x, y, z_ = three-dimensional co-ordinates
EVI:Natural:demands of a natural law, and in virtue of this, the theory becomes a
SEQ:Events:Simultaneous
EVI:Works:free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
EVI:Themselves:ideas among themselves.
SEQ:Throughout:Universe
EVI:Section:in Section XXI; nor in interpreting the empirical law of the equality
EVI:Suitable:bodies. By a suitable choice of units we can thus make this ratio equal
SEQ:Have:Defined
EVI:Terms:comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
SEQ:Radius:Depends
EVI:Fields:fields, we can study the law of motion of these particles very exactly.
EVI:Arrive:London”[3] I arrive at the following result. The earth is the rigid
SEQ:Case:Minimum
EVI:Defect:the defect attaching to classical mechanics which was brought to light
EVI:Difference:time difference Δ_t_ of the same events with reference to _K_ vanishes.
SEQ:Drop:Stone
SEQ:Body:Always
EVI:Conclude:From this we conclude that two points on the _x_-axis separated by the
SEQ:Consequence:Equation
SEQ:Cause:Emission
CON:Surely
EVI:According:We must draw attention here to one of these deviations. According to
EVI:About:the best experimental physicists, so that there can be no doubt about
SEQ:Meaning:Carefully
EVI:Objects:without ever again coming into interaction with other objects of
EVI:Shows:space it would be infinite. But calculation shows that in a
EVI:Length:perceives the lightning flashes travels along the length _A_ → _M_ with
EVI:Required:conditions required by the fundamental law of Galilei. It is then
EVI:Body:celestial body).
SEQ:Second:Body
SEQ:Einstein:Index
SEQ:Lines:Velocity
EVI:Corner:following. If at any moment three squares meet at a corner, then two
EVI:Mass:proportional to the mass _m_. If, on the average, the mass density ρ0
EVI:Every:conveys to us, every motion must be considered only as a relative
REL:Interpretation:Space
SEQ:Required:Generalisation
EVI:Places:To start with, he places one of two identically constructed clocks at
SEQ:Operative:Bodies
REL:Result:Observation
EVI:Before:It is clear that we have the problem of Section VI again before us. The
SEQ:Favoured:Unique
EVI:Body:so here it is impossible to build up a system (reference-body) from
SEQ:Presentation:Subject
EVI:Propositions:whether these propositions are satisfied for those real things we have
SEQ:Should:Measured
EVI:Project:providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
EVI:Surprises:We must experience many such surprises if the construction is to be
EVI:Show:following section we shall show to what extent this is actually the
EVI:Consider:Let us consider now a second two-dimensional existence, but this time
SEQ:Make:Freewill
CON:Attained
SEQ:Brief:General
EVI:Paragraph:prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
EVI:Coordinates:each other. Here the Gaussian coordinates are simply Cartesian ones. It
EVI:Perihelion:during the interval between one perihelion and the next.) In this
EVI:These:these became meaningless if we choose values of _v_ greater than _c_.
EVI:Vanilla:other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
EVI:Material:a material point with any kind of motion. If this point had only a
SEQ:Direction:Velocity
EVI:Advent:Now before the advent of the theory of relativity it had always tacitly
SEQ:Place:Compared
SEQ:Condition:Transformation
SEQ:Order:Show
EVI:Spherical:Thus if the spherical surface beings are living on a planet of which
EVI:Field:body of the gravitational field prevailing relatively to _K_. It is
EVI:Approach:question with a decided “Yes.” But if I now approach you with the
EVI:Diminish:not in the least diminish the conclusiveness of the experiment as a
SEQ:Points:Particular
EVI:Motion:to many points in motion. The only statements having regard to these
CON:Inaccurate
EVI:Until:mark off the distance _S_ time after time until we reach _B_. The
CON:Introduction
EVI:Allow:1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
SEQ:Your:Applicable
EVI:Consequence:to the embankment. As a natural consequence, however, the following
SEQ:Service:Foundation
EVI:Important:derivation of laws, and—what is incomparably more important—it has
CON:Develop
EVI:Statement:statement, because they mean that they can perform the constructions of
EVI:Clocks:(position of the hands) of that one of these clocks which is in the
EVI:Propagated:light is propagated in empty space. Every child at school knows, or
SEQ:Physical:Behaviour
EVI:Potential:If we represent the difference of potential of the centrifugal force
SEQ:Exciting:Field
EVI:Galilei:Galilei transformation (Section XI). In place of the man walking inside
SEQ:Otherwise:Slightest
CON:Accept
EVI:Relativity:PART II: THE GENERAL THEORY OF RELATIVITY
EVI:Space:since calculations show that the metrics of surrounding space is
EVI:Numbers:consideration. These two numbers are then the “Cartesian co-ordinates”
SEQ:Space:Physical
SEQ:Points:Moving
EVI:Also:also influenced by gravitational fields, and in such a way that a
EVI:Beings:But the spherical-surface beings do not need to go on a world-tour in
EVI:Operations:number of these operations required is the numerical measure of the
EVI:Ebook:easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
EVI:Only:transformation (not only the Lorentz transformation) corresponds to the
EVI:Veritable:It is a veritable wonder that we can carry out this business without
SEQ:View:Resuits
EVI:Have:perceptible in terrestrial experiments. We have already remarked in
EVI:Referred:rigidly attached to a rigid body. Referred to a system of co-ordinates,
EVI:Indicate:may indicate the distance (line-interval) between _P_ and _P′_, as
SEQ:Statements:About
EVI:Appendix:[14] Cf. the somewhat more detailed discussion in Appendix II.
EVI:According:processes which take place according to known laws when a gravitational
EVI:Satisfy:Those space-time points (events) which satisfy (1) must also satisfy
EVI:Like:plane: something like the rippled surface of a lake. Such a universe
EVI:Euclidean:position in the continuum. Only when the continuum is a Euclidean one
EVI:Kind:a gravitational field _G_ (of a particular kind). We learn the
REL:Medium:Discontinue
EVI:Project:same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
SEQ:Medium:Instance
SEQ:Except:Limited
EVI:Motion:by “motion relative to a practically rigid body of reference.” The
EVI:Numbering:significance, but only serve the purpose of numbering the points of the
EVI:Mentioned:time mentioned above. Comparison with the discussion in Section XII
SEQ:Rather:Requires
EVI:Relativity:30 kilometres per second. If the principle of relativity were not valid
EVI:Natural:_equivalent_ for the description of natural phenomena. In this case we
SEQ:Light:Cannot
SEQ:Obtain:Condition
EVI:Advancing:equal to _c_. The same result is obtained for rays of light advancing
EVI:Point:point on the trajectory it must be stated at what time the body is
REL:Time:Again
SEQ:Body:Observer
EVI:Above:character of times and lengths, then instead of the above we should
SEQ:Problem:Solved
EVI:Only:formulated—a law which not only explains the motion of the stars
EVI:Above:our rods in experiments analogous to the one described above, then our
EVI:Relative:relative to _K_, we then have
REL:Velocity:Another
EVI:Viewing:1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
EVI:Then:differences for these two events are _dx′, dy′, dz′, dt′_. Then these
SEQ:Itself:Very
REL:Case:Electrons
EVI:Tested:capable of being tested, the agreement between the theories may be so
EVI:Then:a “mollusc” as reference-body _K′_. Then with respect to _K′_ there is
SEQ:Proportional:Expression
EVI:Greater:times greater than for the Sun. R.W.L.—translator
EVI:Results:one direction in the form which also results from the hypotheses of
SEQ:Please:Read
SEQ:Explanations:Proceed
EVI:Proved:Both these hypotheses proved to be consistent, according to the general
SEQ:Among:Themselves
CON:Distasteful
EVI:Answer:previous section the answer is self-evident. In the first place we
EVI:Stands:standing in the chest in exactly the same way as anyone stands in a
EVI:Only:whole not only moving in any way whatsoever, but which also suffer
EVI:Particle:that the Galileian law holds with respect to it: A particle left to
EVI:Before:field. Before proceeding farther, however, I must warn the reader
EVI:Universe:curved universe possessing central symmetry.
EVI:Data:empirical data, the investigator rather develops a system of thought
EVI:Must:received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
EVI:Under:in a “Galileian” fashion under suitable choice of reference-body,
EVI:Includes:This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
SEQ:Hands:These
EVI:Space:described by four numbers, namely, three space co-ordinates _x, y, z_,
SEQ:Owing:Circumstance
EVI:Where:where ω represents the angular velocity of rotation of the disc _K′_
CON:Ensure
SEQ:Since:Publication
EVI:Corresponds:acceleration or curvature corresponds to the influence on the moving
EVI:Found:respect to the æther. It is found by calculation, however, that a
EVI:Finiteness:(finiteness) of space.
EVI:Differ:of which does not differ sensibly from the above mentioned +43 seconds
EVI:Front:I am standing in front of a gas range. Standing alongside of each other
SEQ:Concept:Library
CON:Platz
SEQ:Determined:World
SEQ:Stars:Respect
SEQ:Empirical:Science
EVI:Mollusc:which gives the “mollusc” a certain comprehensibility as compared with
EVI:Your:Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
SEQ:Units:Thus
CON:Else
EVI:More:attributed the more complicated laws which were supposed to hold
SEQ:Thus:Displacement
EVI:Fact:transmission. This is connected with the fact that the velocity _c_
EVI:Straight:from other material particles continue to move uniformly in a straight
EVI:Errors:or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
CON:Meaningless
EVI:Index:is the index of refraction of the liquid. On the other hand, owing to
EVI:Check:check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
EVI:Moreover:Moreover, according to this equation the time difference Δ_t′_ of two
SEQ:Priori:Contained
EVI:Planet:planet which lies nearest the sun. Since the time of Leverrier, it has
EVI:Question:detailed examination of the question shows that the curvature of light
EVI:Space:XXVII. The Space-Time Continuum of the General Theory of Relativity is Not a Euclidean Continuum
CON:Numerous
EVI:Trafalgar:is hovering over Trafalgar Square, then we can determine its position
REL:Same:Different
REL:Compelled:Admit
EVI:Motion:arrive at a law of motion of the electron which does not agree with
SEQ:Constructed:Clocks
SEQ:Purpose:Mechanics
EVI:Point:end (the end of the rod) coincides with the point _x′_ = 1. What is the
EVI:Became:the more recent development of electrodynamics and optics it became
SEQ:Proved:Consistent
SEQ:Even:When
EVI:Exact:measuring-rods. In doing so, it is his intention to arrive at exact
EVI:People:Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
EVI:Connection:electron (rigid connection in the sense of classical mechanics), we
SEQ:Ought:Wish
SEQ:Geometrical:Structure
SEQ:Differences:Opinion
EVI:Present:present the fundamental ideas of the special theory of relativity.
SEQ:Popular:Presentation
CON:Trees
EVI:Travelling:transferred to our old friend the railway carriage, which is travelling
SEQ:Only:Relatively
SEQ:Events:Constitute
SEQ:Corner:Square
EVI:Mechanics:more and more evident that classical mechanics affords an insufficient
EVI:Distance:point, and mark off from each of these the distance _r_ with a
EVI:Going:process a (large) number of times, or, in other words, by going from
SEQ:Interpretation:Distance
SEQ:Curvilinearly:Gravitational
SEQ:Much:Less
EVI:Stretch:result of this will be to stretch the rope so that it will hang
SEQ:Fizeau:Result
EVI:Fields:fields it has not appreciably altered the predictions of theory, but it
EVI:Transformation:transformation, we obtain:
EVI:Then:with the observer then begin to move “upwards” with a uniformly
SEQ:Lines:Sense
EVI:Years:of this expansion which lies “only” about 109 years ago, while physical
SEQ:Shall:Draw
SEQ:Comes:Conflict
CON:Home
EVI:Section:(SUPPLEMENTARY TO SECTION XVII)
SEQ:Obtain:Refund
SEQ:Proceeding:Along
SEQ:Embraces:Whole
EVI:Case:case, and how this question is connected with the general postulate of
CON:Cause
EVI:Experimental:the best experimental physicists, so that there can be no doubt about
EVI:State:state of rest or of uniform motion in a straight line. This law not
SEQ:Section:Since
SEQ:Xxxi:Possibility
SEQ:Einstein:Reference
REL:Interest:Available
SEQ:Light:Hence
EVI:Construct:points on a rigid body, we can construct the line joining them
EVI:Applying:determined by applying the definition of time given in Section VIII.
EVI:Corner:of this corner with reference to the “Cartesian co-ordinate system”
EVI:Necessarily:necessarily come into disorder during the heating, because the little
EVI:Satisfy:general law of nature were to be found which did not satisfy this
EVI:Difficulty:propagation of light. With this and with a second difficulty prevailing
EVI:Party:Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
EVI:Given:radius _r_ depends on _r_, but for a given value of _r_ it is the same
SEQ:Find:Place
SEQ:Brake:Recognises
SEQ:Distances:Centre
EVI:Compared:velocities that are small compared with the velocity of light; hence we
EVI:Unique:which possess certain unique states of motion, and which are in uniform
EVI:Second:Part from the difficulty discussed in Section XXI, there is a second
SEQ:Find:Everywhere
EVI:Zero:diminishes to zero. At first, the straight lines which radiate from the
EVI:Ought:positions of the stars on the eclipse-photograph ought to appear
EVI:Figure:quadrilateral figure (a square), the diagonals of which are equally
EVI:Velocity:velocity of light _c_ in the latter transformation.
REL:Agree:Indemnify
SEQ:Faraday:Magnet
REL:Farther:Farther
SEQ:Different:Emitted
SEQ:Continuity:Corresponding
SEQ:According:Section
SEQ:Order:Escape
EVI:Without:density of matter to be constant everywhere, even to infinity, without
EVI:Time:values of these two points at the time _t_ = 0 can be shown to be
REL:Able:Hold
SEQ:Respect:Order
SEQ:Beyond:Doubt
EVI:Defective:the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
SEQ:Should:Then
CON:Compared
EVI:Measuring:of measuring-rods, as a little consideration will show.
SEQ:Hold:Quite
SEQ:Predicted:Effect
EVI:Basis:hold for these from those resulting on the basis of Euclidean plane
EVI:Clearly:is clearly seen that there is no such thing as an independently
SEQ:Embankment:Shall
EVI:Rotate:yet it does not rotate in so doing). Let us imagine a raven flying
SEQ:However:Irregular
SEQ:Formula:Within
SEQ:Surface:Considered
CON:Material
SEQ:Greatest:Distance
EVI:Galileian:with respect to the “Galileian space” first considered, we can
EVI:Line:line or continue in a state of rest. We have also repeatedly emphasised
SEQ:Attractive:Problem
SEQ:Above:Then
EVI:Obtained:the equality of inertial and gravitational mass. Thus we have obtained
REL:Visually:Observe
EVI:Without:distance without our proceeding being in the highest measure grossly
SEQ:Likely:Development
SEQ:Full:Project
CON:Visible
EVI:Committing:respect to the second framework. Without committing any fundamental
EVI:Predict:the fact that the theory of relativity enables us to predict the
SEQ:Estimated:Difference
EVI:Here:which has been engaging our attention here, in a paper by E. Freundlich
EVI:Rather:found rather in the fact of his recognition that the four-dimensional
EVI:Observation:that is capable of being obtained by the delicacy of observation
EVI:Necessarily:necessarily also equal to _w_.
EVI:Clear:It is clear that this definition can be used to give an exact meaning
SEQ:Identical:Hence
EVI:Contrast:In contrast to electric and magnetic fields, the gravitational field
EVI:Field:co-ordinates when a gravitational field is present. In connection with
REL:Character:Times
SEQ:Also:Repeatedly
CON:Observations
SEQ:Thing:Independently
EVI:Increasing:increasing values of the radius. During this process the area of the
SEQ:Clearly:Follows
SEQ:Electronically:Lieu
SEQ:Euclidean:System
EVI:View:From a systematic theoretical point of view, we may imagine the process
SEQ:Behaviour:Different
EVI:Relativity:should retain the principle of relativity, which appeals so
EVI:Respect:respect to the body of reference[7] (here the railway embankment). We
SEQ:Curvature:Being
SEQ:States:Laws
EVI:Motion:motion to the body attached to it. The tension of the rope is just
EVI:Galileian:gravitational field _G_, which was derived from the Galileian special
SEQ:Lines:Circle
EVI:Electromagnetic:electromagnetic phenomena can be theoretically represented much more
EVI:Determine:Finally, the general principle of relativity permits us to determine
EVI:Intensity:(Force) = (gravitational mass) x (intensity of the gravitational
EVI:Single:space-time by a single system of values _x_1, _x_2, _x_3, _x_4. Thus
SEQ:Transformation:Derived
CON:Those
CON:Travelling
SEQ:Mentioned:Section
EVI:Equations:By means of the first and fourth equations of the Galilei
EVI:Contraction:contraction of the body in the direction of motion, the amount of
EVI:Ordinates:relative to every “Galileian” system of co-ordinates. In contrast to
SEQ:Contributed:Minkowski
EVI:Gravitational:But since a gravitational field exists with respect to this new body of
SEQ:Considered:Rest
EVI:Behaviour:geometrical behaviour of the rods is _almost_ as it ought to be
CON:Sins
EVI:Result:Section V that all attempts of this nature led to a negative result.
EVI:Ordinates:co-ordinates of _K_ and _K′_. It thus appears that, of all Galileian
SEQ:Fair:Amount
EVI:Hypotheses:theory, without the introduction of particular hypotheses; and as the
EVI:Terms:Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
EVI:Reliable:relativity. But a simple and apparently quite reliable consideration
SEQ:Used:Mechanical
SEQ:Quality:Body
EVI:Reflection:of mechanics in this way, without serious reflection and detailed
SEQ:Must:Constituted
SEQ:Considerations:Sections
SEQ:Should:Small
EVI:Judged:[12] As judged from a co-ordinate system moving with the body.
EVI:Cases:in both cases. This can also be expressed as follows: For the physical
SEQ:License:Intellectual
EVI:Gravitational:concerns the investigation of the laws satisfied by the gravitational
SEQ:Have:Significance
SEQ:Continuum:Correspond
EVI:Describing:a question of detecting or of describing the motion involved, it is in
SEQ:Days:Does
EVI:Hold:So far, these considerations hold for a continuum of two dimensions.
EVI:Place:place along the embankment, which had mathematically to assume the
EVI:Gravitational:motion, then relative to _K′_ there exists a gravitational field which
EVI:Centre:displaced radially outwards (away from the centre of the sun) by an
EVI:Mollusc:a “mollusc” as reference-body _K′_. Then with respect to _K′_ there is
SEQ:Behaviour:Pans
SEQ:Mission:Promoting
SEQ:Whether:These
EVI:Made:In your schooldays most of you who read this book made acquaintance
EVI:Body:rigid body.
EVI:Present:upon as the laws of electricity. At the present time we know that
EVI:Relativity:We can state this general principle of relativity in still another
EVI:Brought:which case two of our little rods can still be brought into coincidence
SEQ:Yield:Important
SEQ:Then:Begin
CON:Then
EVI:Most:According to recent and most excellent measurements by Zeeman, the
EVI:Damaged:intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
EVI:Full:• You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
SEQ:Terrestrially:Same
SEQ:Deduction:Tested
EVI:Most:experience. On this point we are enlightened by a most important
SEQ:Eclipse:Relative
EVI:Electromagnetic:domain leads conclusively to a theory of electromagnetic phenomena, of
SEQ:Constant:State
SEQ:These:Curves
SEQ:Then:Both
EVI:Then:system devoid of rotation, then natural phenomena run their course with
EVI:Make:a _stipulation_ which I can make of my own freewill in order to arrive
EVI:Beings:the spherical beings can determine the radius of their universe
SEQ:Express:Implied
SEQ:Points:Rest
EVI:Line:uniformly in a straight line. With reference to K (Galileian
EVI:Nothing:body of reference, we stated nothing more than the encounters of this
SEQ:After:Time
EVI:Colour:pan before. But if I now notice a luminous something of bluish colour
EVI:Since:[26] Especially since the next planet Venus has an orbit that is
EVI:Appearance:appearance, practically all of which must nevertheless escape the test
SEQ:Observe:Both
EVI:Surface:The frequency of an atom situated on the surface of a heavenly body
EVI:Thing:is clearly seen that there is no such thing as an independently
EVI:Simple:By means of comparatively simple considerations we are led to draw the
CON:Comparatively
SEQ:Conclusively:Theory
EVI:Points:best plan would be to assign the distance one to two points on the
CON:Departed
CON:Falls
CON:Gradually
CON:Incompatible
EVI:Outwards:outwards from this centre the group-density of the stars should
SEQ:Energy:Form
EVI:Relativity:THE RELATIVITY OF SIMULTANEITY
SEQ:Motion:Suitably
CON:Course
EVI:Come:come to the conclusion that he and the chest are in a gravitational
CON:Discuss
EVI:Considerations:considerations only for the case, which is never strictly realised, in
SEQ:Result:Also
EVI:Because:ground?” The usual answer to this question is: “Because it is attracted
SEQ:Natural:Theoretical
CON:John
EVI:Slab:marble slab. In like manner we imagine a system of _v_-curves drawn on
EVI:Lines:continuum. In the same way, any such lines in our continuum correspond
REL:Possible:Choose
SEQ:Development:Theoretical
SEQ:Relatively:System
EVI:Pole:specification of the position of the foot of the pole, supplies us with
EVI:Again:embankment. Now let us suppose that our railway carriage is again
EVI:Side:left-hand side, then the left-hand side of (11_a_) agrees with the
SEQ:Make:Little
EVI:Event:indefinitely small amount from those of the event _x, y, z, t_
EVI:Position:specify how the body alters its position _with time; i.e._ for every
EVI:Fees:considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
CON:Distances
EVI:Time:position in space with “time.” I should load my conscience with grave
EVI:Basis:basis the tacit assumptions of the older mechanics as to the absolute
SEQ:Order:Points
EVI:Statement:an astronomical day, a result which is opposed to the statement of the
SEQ:Plane:Small
EVI:Last:_A priori_ it is by no means certain that this last measurement will
CON:Approximately
EVI:Also:then it will also be moving uniformly and in a straight line relative
SEQ:Things:Inclusive
EVI:Classical:the defect attaching to classical mechanics which was brought to light
SEQ:Section:Viii
EVI:Laws:laws of fundamental importance, namely, the law of the conservation of
CON:Reported
SEQ:Became:Evident
EVI:Rigid:rigid bodies and clocks, which shall be of such a nature that
SEQ:Inherited:Prejudices
EVI:What:manner. What are the values _x′, y′, z′, t′_, of an event with respect
EVI:Zero:less than 4π_r_2. With increasing values of _r, F_ increases from zero
SEQ:Only:Explains
EVI:Electrical:each other, the negative electrical masses constituting the electron
SEQ:Describes:Parabola
EVI:Observation:they are unable to leave it. Their whole universe of observation
EVI:Equation:In order that equation (10_a_) may be a consequence of equation (10),
SEQ:Relations:Follows
EVI:Arise:any doubt to arise as to the prime importance of the Galileian
CON:Consistent
EVI:Follows:From this it follows that
EVI:Ordinates:of the co-ordinates are not actually determined by constructions with
SEQ:Theory:Arrived
EVI:Coming:embankment) he is hastening towards the beam of light coming from _B_,
EVI:Find:complete that it becomes difficult to find any deductions in which the
SEQ:Specification:Place
EVI:Other:for all points of the “worldsphere”; in other words, the “world-sphere”
SEQ:Than:Increasing
SEQ:Xxiii:Behaviour
EVI:Than:_i.e._ a smaller value than π, the difference being the more
EVI:Independent:combination and generalisation of the hypotheses, formerly independent
REL:Used:Mechanical
EVI:Theories:capable of being tested, the agreement between the theories may be so
EVI:Make:including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
SEQ:Deal:Later
EVI:Direction:directly; the intensity and direction of the field at points farther
EVI:Events:only events which are localised on the _x_-axis. Any such event is
EVI:Appears:we are then able to find how this known natural process appears, as
SEQ:Mercury:Rotation
EVI:Part:sky when the sun is situated at another part of the heavens. The
SEQ:Solution:General
EVI:Straight:path of the same ray of light is no longer a straight line when we
EVI:Once:we require a “distance” (rod _S_) which is to be used once and for all,
EVI:Work:License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
EVI:Centre:the centre of the circular disc, and the other on the edge of the disc,
EVI:Satisfactory:satisfactory. According to this theory there is no such thing as a
SEQ:Latter:Cartesian
EVI:Parallel:resulting when the motion is parallel to these planes. Although the
EVI:Arise:difficulties? Let us consider how these difficulties arise.
EVI:Permission:with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
EVI:Learn:_A priori_ it is quite clear that we must be able to learn something
SEQ:Identical:Construction
EVI:Natural:description of natural processes, neither of the reference bodies _K,
SEQ:Interpretation:Space
CON:Experiment
SEQ:Centre:Proceed
EVI:Page:and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact
EVI:Relativity:theory of relativity they have been united into one law. We shall now
EVI:These:considered in Section XXIV. In contrast to ours, the universe of these
SEQ:Rigidly:Attached
SEQ:Postulate:General
EVI:Archive:Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
SEQ:Domains:Behave
EVI:Performances:of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
EVI:Galilei:nature. In this connection we did not obtain the Galilei
EVI:Proportional:proportional to it. Under these conditions, the natural laws satisfying
EVI:According:_t_ = 0. It will be propagated according to the equation
EVI:Practically:points on a practically rigid body always correspond to the same
EVI:Time:time that, in virtue of this definition, these time-values can be
EVI:Mechanics:electron (rigid connection in the sense of classical mechanics), we
SEQ:Reason:Them
EVI:Other:thus: A body removed sufficiently far from other bodies continues in a
EVI:Looked:development of electrodynamics the laws of electrostatics were looked
SEQ:Then:Natural
EVI:Place:reference in our statement of the motion taking place. If it is simply
SEQ:Agree:Terms
EVI:Other:inherent to the subject. On the other hand, I have purposely treated
CON:Life
SEQ:Sections:Foundation
EVI:Have:embankment) have already been defined in detail in the preceding
SEQ:Characteristic:Constant
CON:Bonn
EVI:Publication:Original publication: Methuen & Co Ltd,, 1924
EVI:Astronomy:with the empirical data of astronomy, permit no decision to be reached
SEQ:Velocity:About
EVI:Future:and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
EVI:Inadequate:These inadequate remarks can give the reader only a vague notion of the
SEQ:Body:Derivable
EVI:Equations:ticks of this clock. The first and fourth equations of the Lorentz
EVI:Nothing:measuring-rods, are free to move in a _plane_. For them nothing exists
EVI:Over:the measurement gives a whole number. This difficulty is got over by
SEQ:Train:Relativity
SEQ:Natural:Definition
EVI:Possible:always possible. It is only possible when sufficiently small regions of
EVI:Space:dimensional space) of equal length in all directions. They will call
SEQ:Must:Amount
CON:Fully
EVI:Imagine:can imagine this reference-body supplemented laterally and in a
EVI:Body:(Galileian) reference-body _K_ by the space-time variables _x′, y′, z′,
EVI:Notice:pan before. But if I now notice a luminous something of bluish colour
EVI:Reaches:on the Square, so that it reaches the cloud. The length of the pole
EVI:Properties:the properties in space of the gravitational fields themselves.
SEQ:Governing:Properties
EVI:Along:place along the embankment, which had mathematically to assume the
EVI:Comparison:of the case clearer by means of an appropriate comparison. Before the
EVI:Equivalent:discovered by Riemann. its points are likewise all equivalent. It
REL:Advisable:Make
SEQ:Constrained:Believe
CON:Most
EVI:Number:number of lines of force which enters the sphere is thus proportional
CON:Concerned
EVI:Since:planet which lies nearest the sun. Since the time of Leverrier, it has
CON:Unit
EVI:When:physicist), when I imagine that I am able to attach a meaning to the
SEQ:Replaced:More
EVI:Intensity:intensity of the action on a body dimishes according to a quite
EVI:Galileian:with respect to a Galileian reference-body _K_ by the space co-ordinate
EVI:Considerations:Up to now our considerations have been referred to a particular body of
SEQ:Connection:Relation
EVI:Side:right-hand side.
EVI:Electromagnetic:electromagnetic structure of matter. This circumstance, however, does
EVI:Used:than _c_, however great may be the energies used to produce the
SEQ:Velocity:Translation
SEQ:Necessarily:Escape
EVI:Galileian:to a second Galileian system we shall suppose that the corresponding
EVI:Slab:four of these little rods on the marble slab so that they constitute a
EVI:Regard:of thought. We are accustomed further to regard three points as being
EVI:Astronomers:arises for astronomers and physicists, and that is whether the universe
EVI:Codes:other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
SEQ:Surface:Instead
EVI:Latter:likewise the behaviour of “isolated” material points; the latter move
SEQ:Correct:True
CON:Wave
SEQ:Also:Continuum
SEQ:Whether:Actual
EVI:Discovering:physicist until he has the possibility of discovering whether or not it
EVI:Gutenberg:concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
SEQ:Suitable:Choice
SEQ:Ordinates:When
CON:Empty
SEQ:Relativity:Themselves
EVI:Principle:_in vacuo_ does not contradict the principle of relativity? In other
EVI:Relativity:XXVIII. Exact Formulation of the General Principle of Relativity
SEQ:Supplies:Method
CON:Arrow
EVI:Continuum:position in the continuum. Only when the continuum is a Euclidean one
EVI:Work:in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO
CON:Familiar
SEQ:Least:Direct
EVI:Thus:Maxwell-Lorentz theory of electromagnetic phenomena. Thus all facts of
CON:Indicating
SEQ:Obtain:Following
EVI:Other:hand, the principle of relativity holds true and that on the other hand
SEQ:Space:Euclidean
EVI:Gravitational:gravitational field which is directed forwards and which is variable
SEQ:Infinite:Region
EVI:Rigid:object in space is based on the specification of the point on a rigid
EVI:Axis:order to see how the points of the _x′_-axis appear as viewed from _K_,
EVI:Surfaces:arranged on a rigid body that the reflecting surfaces face each other.
EVI:Speak:Nevertheless, there are two general facts which at the outset speak
SEQ:However:Provide
EVI:Instance:the nature of our specification of position. If, for instance, a cloud
SEQ:Importance:Early
EVI:General:XVIII. Special and General Principle of Relativity
EVI:Consideration:In consideration of the expression given above for the kinetic energy
EVI:Section:Galilei transformation (Section XI). In place of the man walking inside
CON:Phenomena
SEQ:Relativity:Must
SEQ:Modern:Physics
SEQ:First:Edition
SEQ:Fashion:Readers
EVI:Instead:character of times and lengths, then instead of the above we should
EVI:Registration:registration of stars during a total eclipse of the sun. The only
SEQ:Different:Matter
SEQ:Hereupon:Introduce
EVI:Theorems:arises as to which of these two theorems is the better in accord with
EVI:Motion:condition of uniform motion of translation. Relative to _K′_ the
REL:Mentioned:Flowing
EVI:Marked:necessary to take him from the one marked point to the other. Then the
SEQ:Fields:Produced
SEQ:Perceive:Living
EVI:Govern:1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
EVI:Attempt:hope of success in such an attempt; Let us imagine ourselves
CON:Expected
EVI:Domain:We start off on a consideration of a Galileian domain, _i.e._ a domain
EVI:Inadequate:quite inadequate. What does it mean to assign to an event the
EVI:Equation:transmitted according to the equation
SEQ:Being:What
EVI:Manner:manner. We imagine two clocks of identical construction; the man at the
EVI:Order:In order that equation (10_a_) may be a consequence of equation (10),
EVI:Making:By making use of the following modification of this abstract
EVI:Body:a “mollusc” as reference-body _K′_. Then with respect to _K′_ there is
EVI:Observations:statements of a large number of individual observations in the form of
SEQ:Kind:Learn
EVI:Therefore:line also loses its meaning. We are therefore not in a position to
CON:Destroy
REL:Case:General
SEQ:Destroy:Copies
EVI:However:_K0_ throughout the whole year. However, the most careful observations
SEQ:Structure:Universe
EVI:Position:possible to describe the position of a point (at rest) by means of
EVI:Rectangular:satisfactory manner. The rectangular components of the observed and of
EVI:Shown:ourselves compelled to admit, all remaining propositions are shown to
EVI:Velocities:VI. The Theorem of the Addition of Velocities employed in Classical Mechanics
CON:Advance
EVI:Repeated:The distance between these points A and B is then measured by repeated
EVI:Priori:priori;_ it is not contained in the conceptions of “motion” and
SEQ:Complete:Regard
EVI:Seek:Analogously, I seek in vain for a real something in classical mechanics
EVI:Encounters:body of reference, we stated nothing more than the encounters of this
EVI:Equal:respect to the carriage must not be considered equal to the duration of
EVI:These:are simultaneously (in the above sense) the same. Under these
EVI:Form:Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
EVI:Theory:t′_, of a new reference-body _K′_. According to the general theory of
EVI:Neighbouring:simple conditions. Let us consider two neighbouring events, the
EVI:Touch:Poincaré, whereas I can only touch on them briefly here.
SEQ:These:Ticks
CON:Formulate
SEQ:Formulation:Natural
CON:Chosen
EVI:Under:Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
EVI:Rest:from _K′_, of a unit measuring-rod which is at rest relative to _K_. In
EVI:Thought:Hypothesis (2) appeared unavoidable to me at the time, since I thought
EVI:Virtue:_x, y, z_, of the first point. In virtue of the latter property we
EVI:Without:without ever again coming into interaction with other objects of
SEQ:Laws:Rapid
EVI:Year:manner that, in the course of a planet-year, the distance sun-planet
CON:Gauss
EVI:Escape:would necessarily escape detection.[26]
EVI:Interpretation:Faraday-Maxwell interpretation of electromagnetic action at a distance
SEQ:Event:Other
SEQ:Refund:Money
SEQ:Unsurpassable:Lucidity
SEQ:Part:Space
SEQ:Beginning:Work
EVI:Electrostatics:development of electrodynamics the laws of electrostatics were looked
EVI:Different:that above with the marble slab), we should find that different laws
SEQ:Becomes:Invalid
REL:Changes:Energy
SEQ:Similar:Ones
EVI:Second:the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
CON:Parts
EVI:Without:of which will hardly be doubted without empirical evidence to the
CON:Observes
EVI:Point:When we were describing the motion of a material point relative to a
REL:Constant:Gravitation
EVI:Straight:a straight line when the points _A_ and _C_ being given, _B_ is chosen
SEQ:Space:Yielded
EVI:Rate:seems to suggest that, for the present at any rate, there is little
CON:Ceiling
SEQ:Cannot:Define
EVI:Reference:carriage) remains permanently at rest. With reference to it, however,
CON:Yearly
EVI:Measurement:measurement or the comparison of lengths.
EVI:Expression:This expression may also be stated in the following form:
EVI:Other:_w_. How quickly or, in other words, with what velocity _W_ does the
CON:Question
EVI:Mathematician:The non-mathematician is seized by a mysterious shuddering when he
SEQ:Temperature:Temperature
EVI:Points:The distance between these points A and B is then measured by repeated
SEQ:Home:Earth
SEQ:Should:Therefore
SEQ:Regards:Geometry
EVI:Difference:_i.e._ a smaller value than π, the difference being the more
CON:Moment
EVI:These:assign an exact meaning to the natural laws in which these occur.
EVI:Considerations:above considerations.[5]
SEQ:Valid:Provided
EVI:Abstract:By making use of the following modification of this abstract
EVI:Liquid:Light travels in a motionless liquid with a particular velocity _w_.
EVI:Under:fifteenth re-printing of this book; and as a result is still under
SEQ:Velocity:Revolution
REL:Effect:Inertia
EVI:Whereas:number π = 3.14 . . ., but a larger number,[19] whereas of course, for
SEQ:Known:Ellipse
EVI:Judged:judged from this reference-body, the time which elapses between two
SEQ:Experimental:Confirmation
EVI:Experience:disagreement between these two fundamental results of experience? This
SEQ:Relative:Particular
EVI:Over:law for the space-time magnitudes of an event when changing over from
SEQ:Shift:Increased
EVI:Thought:thought a _theory_. The theory finds the justification for its
EVI:Marble:marble slab. In like manner we imagine a system of _v_-curves drawn on
EVI:Themselves:particular co-ordinates _x_1, _x_2, _x_3, _x_4, if in themselves these
EVI:Regard:generally for gravitational fields. Furthermore, we can regard an atom
SEQ:License:Apply
SEQ:Assigned:Adjacent
EVI:Likely:astronomy makes it appear likely that the development of individual
EVI:Phrase:(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
EVI:These:whether these propositions are satisfied for those real things we have
CON:Doubted
SEQ:Laws:Capable
EVI:Table:table. These we designate as _u_-curves, and we indicate each of them
EVI:Derived:since the equations of the Lorentz transformation were derived
SEQ:First:Point
EVI:Reference:the disc may regard his disc as a reference-body which is “at rest”; on
SEQ:Independent:Determined
EVI:Lorentz:I. Simple Derivation of the Lorentz Transformation (supplementary to section XI)
EVI:Four:agreement of their four co-ordinates _x_1, _x_2, _x_3, _x_4. Thus in
CON:Conclusively
EVI:Motion:resulting when the motion is parallel to these planes. Although the
EVI:Places:have to do with places and times relative both to the train and to the
CON:Transport
EVI:Means:This result admits of an experimental test by means of the photographic
CON:Organpipe
SEQ:Electromagnetic:Waves
SEQ:Morley:Performed
EVI:Arbitrarily:Gaussian four-dimensional co-ordinate system chosen arbitrarily. That
EVI:Undaunted:Undaunted by the [first world] war and by difficulties of both a
EVI:Then:discard this assumption, then the conflict between the law of the
EVI:Something:_possibly_ it may do so. If, however, I notice the bluish something in
SEQ:Belongs:Adjacent
SEQ:Conscientious:Teachers
EVI:Fees:including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
EVI:Small:are small as compared with the velocity of transmission of light. We
EVI:Cloud:reach the cloud.
SEQ:Values:Increases
SEQ:According:Whom
EVI:Space:which is situated in free space (or on the surface of a smaller
EVI:Question:embankment and relative to the train? This question leads to a quite
EVI:Statements:nature with which we meet in physical statements.
SEQ:Distance:Time
SEQ:Between:Clear
SEQ:Without:Paying
EVI:Amount:indefinitely small amount from those of the event _x, y, z, t_
EVI:Such:squares. The arrangement is such, that each side of a square belongs to
SEQ:Array:Equipment
EVI:Dimensional:found rather in the fact of his recognition that the four-dimensional
CON:Respective
SEQ:Without:Ends
SEQ:Executing:Accelerated
EVI:Numbers:numbers (Gaussian coordinates) which differ by an indefinitely small
EVI:Beam:Hence the observer will see the beam of light emitted from _B_ earlier
EVI:Development:another direction. The development of non-Euclidean geometry led to the
EVI:Apart:_A′_ and _B′_ the two points on the train whose distance apart is
EVI:Ordinate:itself as reference-body (co-ordinate system). An observer in the train
SEQ:Breach:Contract
EVI:Arguments:the Maxwell-Lorentz theory, which are at the same time arguments in
EVI:Point:such nor did it seem natural from a theoretical point of view
SEQ:Equivalent:Formulation
SEQ:Same:Velocity
EVI:Another:another point: it is shown by calculation that for a given velocity _v_
SEQ:Little:Book
EVI:Place:This primitive method of place specification deals only with places on
EVI:Nothing:is clear that Gauss co-ordinates are nothing more than an association
EVI:Outdated:array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
SEQ:Direction:Motion
EVI:Number:number of such systems of values, the co-ordinate values of which are
CON:Stone
CON:Puzzled
EVI:Naturally:of lightning occur, this point _M′_ naturally coincides with the point
EVI:Assuming:assuming that the motion of the body relative to the æther produces a
EVI:Early:problem of the greatest importance, the early solution of which is to
EVI:Should:certainly regard everyone with disdain who should pronounce even the
EVI:First:0. For this value of _t_ we then obtain from the first of the equations
EVI:Being:I have chosen this as being more familiar to the English reader than
EVI:Conclusively:domain leads conclusively to a theory of electromagnetic phenomena, of
EVI:Gravitation:with the Newtonian constant of gravitation.
EVI:Define:define exactly the co-ordinates _x, y, z_ relative to the disc by means
EVI:Physical:This stipulation contains a further physical hypothesis, the validity
EVI:Stars:fixed stars are bodies for which the law of inertia certainly holds to
SEQ:Taken:When
REL:Treatment:Continua
EVI:Direction:shortening in the direction of the motion. On the other hand, the
SEQ:Smoothly:Then
EVI:Then:velocity _c_, then for this reason it would appear that another law of
SEQ:Just:Seen
CON:Over
CON:Adhere
REL:Juncture:Grant
SEQ:Other:Warranties
EVI:Velocity:distance or of action at a distance with an infinite velocity of
CON:Appearing
SEQ:First:Chosen
SEQ:Place:Along
EVI:Actual:be commissioned to determine by observations whether in the actual case
EVI:Place:In the first place, we see from this expression that two clocks of
SEQ:Scarcely:Likely
SEQ:Reference:First
SEQ:Reader:Author
REL:Object:Space
EVI:Influence:the influence of the gravitational field on the course of all those
SEQ:Obtain:First
SEQ:Space:Then
EVI:Beings:these beings is finite and yet has no limits._
SEQ:Determine:Length
SEQ:Rods:Must
SEQ:Accelertion:Chest
EVI:However:thought. Once in possession of the Lorentz transformation, however, we
EVI:Postulate:the postulate of relativity, that the transmission of the signal in
SEQ:Astronomer:Sitter
EVI:Forwards:gravitational field which is directed forwards and which is variable
EVI:Hold:mechanical laws of Galilei-Newton hold good exactly as they do with
EVI:Ordinates:for the co-ordinates themselves are valid also for co-ordinate
EVI:Motion:assuming that the motion of the body relative to the æther produces a
EVI:Fixes:Suppose that the man in the chest fixes a rope to the inner side of the
EVI:Briefly:Similarly, the world of physical phenomena which was briefly called
CON:Every
EVI:Time:point on the trajectory it must be stated at what time the body is
SEQ:License:Must
SEQ:Passing:Through
SEQ:Newton:Hold
CON:Description
EVI:Hand:right-hand side.
EVI:Form:one direction in the form which also results from the hypotheses of
SEQ:Disclaimers:Certain
EVI:Events:We thus obtain the following result: Every description of events in
EVI:Point:theoretical point of view. He realized that it was possible to preserve
EVI:Such:rigid bodies and clocks, which shall be of such a nature that
CON:Retain
SEQ:Specify:Body
SEQ:Extended:Over
EVI:Ordinates:XXV. Gaussian Co-ordinates
SEQ:According:Equations
SEQ:Advances:Accordance
SEQ:Optics:These
SEQ:Joining:Free
EVI:Combined:According to Gauss, this combined analytical and geometrical mode of
EVI:Group:outwards from this centre the group-density of the stars should
CON:Prohibition
EVI:Manner:four-dimensional continuum, are defined physically in a simple manner,
SEQ:Table:Possible
EVI:Form:transformation are valid. These last form the basis for the derivation
SEQ:Then:Described
EVI:Determines:footpath the other. Each of the observers determines the position on
EVI:Description:systems are given preference for the description of the
EVI:Taken:If in place of the law of transmission of light we had taken as our
EVI:According:[24] _Proof_—According to the theory of Newton, the number of “lines
REL:Author:Spared
SEQ:Maintain:Position
REL:Justified:Asking
REL:Able:Adjust
EVI:Amount:amount corresponding to the angle _a_.
EVI:Clearness:In order to attain the greatest possible clearness, let us return to
EVI:Limitation:in the comprehensive limitation which is imposed on the laws of nature
EVI:Call:constrained to call the propositions of geometry “true.” Geometrical
EVI:Every:simultaneity). Every reference-body (co-ordinate system) has its own
EVI:Distance:distance _AB_. This is the basis of all measurement of length.[2]
CON:Study
SEQ:When:Distance
EVI:Systems:co-ordinate systems, one (_K_) corresponding to a particular state of
SEQ:Field:Before
REL:Laws:Thought
SEQ:Same:Degree
EVI:Cannot:universe cannot be quasi-Euclidean. On the contrary, the results of
EVI:Newton:This view is not in harmony with the theory of Newton. The latter
SEQ:Again:Whole
SEQ:Complying:Trademark
SEQ:Time:Magnitudes
SEQ:Construct:Line
CON:Written
EVI:Electrical:which the electrical masses are quite at rest relatively to each other,
EVI:General:general scientific and philosophical point of view, are interested in
SEQ:Already:Known
SEQ:True:When
REL:Intervention:Some
EVI:Domain:used before. Let us consider a space time domain in which no
EVI:Chosen:Gaussian four-dimensional co-ordinate system chosen arbitrarily. That
EVI:Employee:trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
SEQ:Take:Snapshot
SEQ:Square:Similar
EVI:System:co-ordinate system _K′_, and finally, the light plays the part of the
EVI:Engaging:which has been engaging our attention here, in a paper by E. Freundlich
EVI:Density:quasi-Euclidean universe the average density of matter would
SEQ:True:Geometrical
EVI:Result:The most important result of a general character to which the special
EVI:Special:RELATIVITY: THE SPECIAL AND GENERAL THEORY
EVI:Agree:does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
SEQ:Planets:These
EVI:Compelled:this, we feel compelled at the present juncture to grant a kind of
EVI:Beings:Perhaps the reader will wonder why we have placed our “beings” on a
SEQ:More:Careful
EVI:Embankment:Events which are simultaneous with reference to the embankment are not
SEQ:Adjacent:Clocks
CON:Purponse
CON:Treatment
CON:Refinement
SEQ:Shall:Speak
EVI:Thus:theory thus:
EVI:Points:to many points in motion. The only statements having regard to these
EVI:Describe:possible to describe the position of a point (at rest) by means of
SEQ:Uniform:Rate
EVI:Present:this, we feel compelled at the present juncture to grant a kind of
EVI:Involving:Michelson and Morley performed an experiment involving interference in
EVI:Grasp:very exact grasp of this work in order to understand the fundamental
CON:Meaning
EVI:Universe:they are unable to leave it. Their whole universe of observation
EVI:Extent:To what extent is the special theory of relativity supported by
EVI:Judged:measuring-rod will not experience a shortening in length, as judged
EVI:Under:agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
EVI:More:circular disc. Thus on our circular disc, or, to make the case more
EVI:Must:to a second objection which must be raised against the apparently
EVI:Where:of the country where you are located before using this eBook.
EVI:Invalidates:a gravitational field invalidates the definition of the coordinates and
SEQ:Transition:Such
EVI:Remains:carriage) remains permanently at rest. With reference to it, however,
EVI:Situated:identical construction will go at different rates when situated at
EVI:These:these squares until finally the whole marble slab is laid out with
SEQ:Proven:Proposition
EVI:Only:not only to _two_ events, but to as many events as we care to choose,
SEQ:Whatsoever:Also
EVI:Velocity:_v_ = velocity
EVI:Most:equivalent. As a result of this discussion, a most interesting question
EVI:Neighbourhood:body (_e.g._ the earth) produces a field in its immediate neighbourhood
EVI:Degree:permits of our answering it with a moderate degree of certainty, and in
EVI:Readable:freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
SEQ:Situated:Near
EVI:Ordinate:that there was no such field for the co-ordinate system first chosen.
EVI:Field:same for a given gravitational field, then the ratio of the
EVI:However:relativity. The development of theoretical physics shows, however, that
SEQ:Possession:Lorentz
CON:Achieved
SEQ:Then:Galileian
EVI:Objection:[15] The objection is of importance more especially when the state of
REL:Order:Learn
EVI:Lorentz:ticks of this clock. The first and fourth equations of the Lorentz
EVI:Body:body of reference. The following statement corresponds to the
EVI:Also:reference _K′_, our consideration also teaches us how the gravitational
EVI:Newton:Newton’s law, in which he assumes that for great distances the force of
SEQ:Need:Only
EVI:Serve:significance, but only serve the purpose of numbering the points of the
SEQ:Manner:Each
REL:Events:Independent
EVI:Inertia:circumstances as “inertia” or as “weight” (lit. “heaviness”). In the
CON:Unsurpassable
EVI:Distance:_A′_ and _B′_ the two points on the train whose distance apart is
SEQ:Consider:Seconds
SEQ:Conservation:Mass
EVI:Rotates:rotates uniformly in its own plane about its centre. An observer who is
EVI:Clocks:manner. We imagine two clocks of identical construction; the man at the
SEQ:Called:World
SEQ:Form:However
EVI:Coordinates:That is, by the afore-mentioned choice of “coordinates,” (11_a_) [see
EVI:Cannot:and their rods withal as the realisation of “distance”? They cannot do
SEQ:Done:Such
EVI:Draw:it is possible to draw the _u_-curves and _v_-curves and to attach
SEQ:Part:Considerations
CON:Anywhere
SEQ:Placed:Beings
SEQ:Already:Laid
SEQ:Said:Closed
EVI:Therefore:we should therefore expect that the direction of motion of the earth at
EVI:Validity:This stipulation contains a further physical hypothesis, the validity
EVI:Incompatibilitiy:became evident that _in reality there is not the least incompatibilitiy
EVI:Particular:theory, without the introduction of particular hypotheses; and as the
EVI:Performed:Michelson and Morley performed an experiment involving interference in
EVI:Heaviness:circumstances as “inertia” or as “weight” (lit. “heaviness”). In the
EVI:Salt:Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
SEQ:Continuum:Event
SEQ:Range:Standing
EVI:Body:(_a_) We imagine the rigid body, to which the place specification is
SEQ:Power:Possessed
SEQ:Same:Time
EVI:World:(“world”), even when only a relatively small part of their worldsphere
EVI:Business:The Foundation’s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
SEQ:States:Allow
EVI:Table:these two numbers the co-ordinates of the surface of the table
SEQ:Point:Point
EVI:World:They can convince themselves of this on every part of their “world,”
EVI:Same:_K_. It is obvious that the same effect would be noted by an observer
EVI:Thus:its inertial mass, and thus according to Section XV only its energy is
SEQ:Regarded:Valid
SEQ:Fundamental:Role
REL:Centre:Gravity
SEQ:Thus:Mathematicians
EVI:Observed:not suffice to calculate the observed motion of Mercury with an
EVI:Relativity:considered as reference-body. The general principle of relativity
CON:Undergone
CON:Cartesian
SEQ:Comparison:Second
SEQ:Should:Define
CON:Resulting
SEQ:Fact:Carriage
SEQ:Increase:Temperature
EVI:Formally:three space co-ordinates. Formally, these four co-ordinates correspond
SEQ:Able:Regard
EVI:Acceleration:observer will further convince himself _that the acceleration of the
SEQ:Step:Farther
SEQ:Quite:Clear
SEQ:Analogously:Surface
EVI:Easily:experience? This question is not easily answered for the reason already
EVI:Constancy:theory of relativity, the law of the constancy of the velocity of light
CON:Nonproprietary
EVI:Result:London”[3] I arrive at the following result. The earth is the rigid
SEQ:Anything:United
EVI:Liable:LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
EVI:Held:electrical masses of an electron are held together by gravitational
EVI:Conversant:the theory, but who are not conversant with the mathematical apparatus
EVI:Simply:_not_ derivable from the Galileian special case, simply by means of a
EVI:License:License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
EVI:Motion:reference-bodies (or their states of motion) are given priority over
SEQ:Depend:Perfectly
CON:Transmitted
EVI:Ought:infinite region of emptiness. The stellar universe ought to be a finite
SEQ:Point:Rest
CON:Paperwork
CON:Laid
EVI:Velocity:velocity of transmission relative to the reference-body _K′_ is also
SEQ:Abstraction:Reader
SEQ:Physically:Real
EVI:Description:reference-body (mollusc) used in the description may be chosen.
EVI:Field:(_c_) Gravitational field and matter together must satisfy the law of
EVI:Galileian:four-dimensional, space-time continuum. We called these “Galileian
EVI:Dimensional:XVII. Minkowski’s Four-dimensional Space
SEQ:Decisive:Imagine
REL:Power:Abstraction
SEQ:Indicate:Each
EVI:Measured:(here the length of the pole measured with the measuring-rod) instead
SEQ:Order:Ideas
SEQ:Correspond:Ordinates
EVI:View:experience. Guided by purely formal points of view, H. A. Lorentz was
SEQ:Disappears:Centre
EVI:Definition:definition of time. We have to imagine each of these clocks fixed at a
SEQ:Theory:Have
EVI:General:Relativity: The Special and General Theory
SEQ:Just:Much
CON:Retardation
SEQ:Original:Velocity
SEQ:Exactly:Surface
EVI:Represented:represented by formula (B) to within one per cent.
EVI:Total:total he covers the distance _W = v + w_ relative to the embankment in
EVI:Order:astronomers (Eddington, Cottingham, Crommelin, Davidson), in order to
EVI:Transformations:transformations in the special sense and from purely spatial
SEQ:Enlightened:Most
SEQ:Your:Schooldays
EVI:Reference:can imagine this reference-body supplemented laterally and in a
SEQ:Same:Mechanical
SEQ:Formal:Properties
EVI:Pronounced:formal properties, shows a pronounced relationship to the
EVI:Starts:We have already stated several times that classical mechanics starts
SEQ:Time:Different
EVI:Also:This applies not only to scientific description, but also to everyday
REL:Table:Local
EVI:Explained:principle according to the method which has already been explained for
EVI:Legitimately:We can now legitimately ask as to the “truth” of geometrical
SEQ:Brian:Basgen
EVI:Distasteful:ourselves from the distasteful conception that the material universe
SEQ:Translation:Uniform
EVI:Project:other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
EVI:Departed:that one would get into bottomless speculations if one departed from
EVI:These:we can free ourselves from both of these limitations without altering
EVI:Lead:body._ For instance, a piece of lead and a piece of wood fall in
SEQ:Laws:When
EVI:Conscientious:conscientious teachers. By reason of our past experience, you would
EVI:Obvious:_K_. It is obvious that the same effect would be noted by an observer
SEQ:Without:Complying
SEQ:Freely:Available
EVI:Table:slab of the table and local variation of temperature. The temperature
CON:Electronic
EVI:Disc:the disc may regard his disc as a reference-body which is “at rest”; on
EVI:Maintaining:($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
EVI:Those:hold for these from those resulting on the basis of Euclidean plane
SEQ:Circle:First
SEQ:Repeated:Since
SEQ:Results:Hypotheses
SEQ:Thus:Obtain
SEQ:Small:Claims
EVI:Neighbouring:the Gaussian co-ordinates _u_ = 3, _v_ = 1. Two neighbouring points _P_
EVI:Definitions:definitions for the signification of time- and space-data with
SEQ:Sense:Method
SEQ:License:Terms
EVI:Clock:quantitatively. A clock, which is situated at a distance r from the
EVI:Such:necessarily be _nil_. Thus such a universe could not be inhabited by
SEQ:Examine:Dependence
SEQ:Reader:Wonder
EVI:Follows:of moving bodies follows from the two fundamental principles of the
REL:Values:These
EVI:Special:line with the demands of the special theory of relativity. For the main
EVI:Treatment:slovenliness of treatment, which, as we know from the special theory of
EVI:Only:this supposition would only be possible if we already had at our
CON:Solar
SEQ:Distinguish:Extended
SEQ:Move:Clocks
EVI:Galileian:system _K′_ is a Galileian one, when, in relation to _K_, it is in a
CON:Being
EVI:Shall:whilst the other does not, then I shall remain astonished and
SEQ:Sensible:Force
EVI:Ordinate:space co-ordinates as opposed to the time co-ordinate. Every point on
EVI:Project:to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
EVI:Latter:This view is not in harmony with the theory of Newton. The latter
EVI:Themselves:stars, if we could disregard the motion of the fixed stars themselves
EVI:Optical:investigations of H. A. Lorentz on the electrodynamical and optical
SEQ:Heat:Central
EVI:Destroy:destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
EVI:Velocity:latter is in motion with reference to other bodies or not. The velocity
SEQ:Without:Further
SEQ:Right:Equal
EVI:Friedman:system of stars in the large—as required, according to Friedman, by the
EVI:Railway:railway carriage would be a system _K_, relative to which less simple
EVI:These:correct the observed motion of the planets for these two influences,
REL:Considered:Section
EVI:Embankment:embankment. Now let us suppose that our railway carriage is again
SEQ:Changes:Energy
SEQ:World:Supplementary
EVI:Tension:tension in the rope, the man in the chest will say: “The suspended body
SEQ:Sets:Certain
SEQ:Society:Investigation
SEQ:Over:Important
SEQ:Manner:Terrestrially
SEQ:Here:Replaced
EVI:December:First Published: December, 1916
SEQ:Leads:General
EVI:Rotating:rotating uniformly with respect to _K_. In order to fix our ideas, we
SEQ:Length:Trustworthy
SEQ:Theory:Planet
SEQ:Make:Ourselves
EVI:Reference:BEHAVIOUR OF CLOCKS AND MEASURING-RODS ON A ROTATING BODY OF REFERENCE
EVI:Require:we only require to take a “snapshot” of _K′_ from _K_; this means that
SEQ:Defective:Damaged
EVI:Great:relativity must therefore apply with great accuracy in the domain of
SEQ:Three:Plane
REL:Access:Electronic
SEQ:Decide:Experiment
EVI:Reference:reference-body let us imagine a spacious chest resembling a room with
SEQ:Values:Coordinates
EVI:Passing:curvature of its path when passing through a gravitational field, this
EVI:Clear:It is clear that we have the problem of Section VI again before us. The
EVI:Directly:another, shall indicate position and time directly. Such was the
SEQ:Those:Axioms
EVI:Directions:dimensional space) of equal length in all directions. They will call
SEQ:Case:General
CON:Matriculation
EVI:Does:derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
CON:Definition
EVI:Part:the solar system occupies only a negligibly small part of the spherical
EVI:General:more general theoretical principles as is the law of Newton.
EVI:Hypothesis:requiring any special hypothesis whatsoever as to the structure and the
REL:Apply:Copying
EVI:Conclusion:and he consequently comes to the conclusion that the chest is suspended
SEQ:Itself:Sufficient
SEQ:Reference:Archive
SEQ:Axis:Obtain
EVI:Favour:crucial test in favour of the theory of relativity, for the
SEQ:Point:Length
SEQ:States:Located
CON:Said
EVI:Assumes:nevertheless, because in reality it assumes absolutely nothing about
EVI:About:hypothesis about the law of propagation of light; it must certainly be
EVI:Locate:almost an exact circle, which makes it more difficult to locate the
EVI:Support:experience which support the electromagnetic theory also support the
SEQ:Radially:Outwards
EVI:Correct:correct (“true”) when it has been derived in the recognised manner from
SEQ:Generally:Gravitational
EVI:Uniformly:uniformly with reference to the first, the equations of the Lorentz
EVI:Propagation:immediately follows. If referred to the system _K′_, the propagation of
EVI:Incompatibility:THE APPARENT INCOMPATIBILITY OF THE LAW OF PROPAGATION OF LIGHT WITH
SEQ:Diminish:Until
SEQ:Electrical:Masses
EVI:Ordinate:[11] _E_0 is the energy taken up, as judged from a co-ordinate system
EVI:Around:into being something physically real in the space around it, that
SEQ:Events:Have
EVI:Direction:direction is the same as that of the ray of light, but its velocity of
SEQ:Disappearance:Involves
SEQ:Retardation:Carriage
CON:Formula
EVI:Logically:which, in general, is built up logically from a small number of
EVI:Discussion:We already know from our previous discussion that the behaviour of
CON:Discrepancies
CON:Cover
EVI:Entered:At this juncture the theory of relativity entered the arena. As a
SEQ:Fundamental:Galilei
CON:Still
EVI:Hope:special kind. This hope has been realised in the most beautiful manner.
SEQ:Requires:These
SEQ:Requires:Perfectly
EVI:Leads:question leads to a general one. In the discussion of Section VI we
SEQ:Measuring:Train
EVI:Difficulty:with respect to the body of reference. A similar difficulty presents
SEQ:Introduction:Does
SEQ:Produced:Newtonian
SEQ:Charge:Others
EVI:Then:position, of the pointers of the other clock, then identical “settings”
REL:Order:Perceive
EVI:Length:length of the metre-rod relatively to the system _K_? In order to learn
SEQ:Hypotheses:Forming
EVI:Sections:But the considerations of Sections XXV and XXVI show us the way to
SEQ:Second:Considered
EVI:Through:through the air in such a manner that its motion, as observed from the
EVI:Geometry:In particular, the constructions of plane Euclidean geometry can be
CON:Difficult
EVI:Manner:satisfactory manner. The rectangular components of the observed and of
SEQ:Time:Corresponding
EVI:Have:whether these propositions are satisfied for those real things we have
EVI:Also:point with particular points of the reference-body. We can also
EVI:According:brilliant theoretical physicist L. Boltzmann, according to whom matters
EVI:Against:strings to the floor, otherwise the slightest impact against the floor
CON:Receiving
EVI:Three:point-event a “world-point.” From a “happening” in three-dimensional
EVI:Owing:continually interfere with each other, owing to the impenetrability of
EVI:Subsequent:in their subsequent measurement.
SEQ:Gauss:Indicated
EVI:Stars:in which the density of the stars is a maximum, and that as we proceed
SEQ:Space:Gravitational
SEQ:Manifest:Itself
EVI:Perhaps:After some time perhaps the following answer would occur to you: “The
EVI:Start:START: FULL LICENSE
EVI:Zeal:present time (1920) astronomers are working with great zeal towards the
SEQ:Most:Essential
EVI:Same:law of the propagation of light _in vacuo_) have exactly the same form
EVI:Metre:therefore follows that the length of a rigid metre-rod moving in the
EVI:Adjust:completely determined. But I am now no longer able to adjust the
EVI:Euclidean:case in which the points of the surface considered form a Euclidean
SEQ:Travelling:Train
EVI:Hand:directly with the reality. But, on the other hand, these results must
EVI:Time:distance _w_ relative to the railway line in a time which is equal to
EVI:Distribute:1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
EVI:Whilst:end (the beginning) coincides with the point _x′_ = 0 whilst the other
EVI:Empirical:empirical decision as to whether or not the conception that has to be
EVI:Finally:co-ordinate system _K′_, and finally, the light plays the part of the
REL:Light:Propagated
CON:Aberration
SEQ:Stars:Bodies
EVI:Theorem:In Section VI we derived the theorem of the addition of velocities in
SEQ:Work:Elect
EVI:Vertically:“vertically” downwards. If we ask for an opinion of the cause of
EVI:Making:making the adjustments required for the taking of the photographs, and
SEQ:Standard:Photograph
REL:Reference:Those
SEQ:World:Formal
SEQ:Nature:Does
EVI:Referred:whether or not these displacements are to be referred in reality to the
SEQ:Whole:Surface
EVI:Treated:inherent to the subject. On the other hand, I have purposely treated
EVI:Behaviour:chest would not be able to interpret the behaviour of the bodies around
SEQ:Usual:Answer
EVI:Ordinate:We see from (12) that the imaginary time co-ordinate _x_4, enters into
EVI:Copies:copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
EVI:Original:hypothesis (2). Namely, the original field equations admit a solution
EVI:Theory:PART I: THE SPECIAL THEORY OF RELATIVITY
CON:Framework
EVI:Conviction:Of course the conviction of the “truth” of geometrical propositions in
EVI:Derive:• You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
EVI:Does:investigation, and to which the physics of pre-relativity days does not
EVI:Magnitudes:to _K′_, when the magnitudes _x, y, z, t_, of the same event with
SEQ:Africa:Sent
SEQ:Space:Measurements
SEQ:Reason:Must
CON:Piece
EVI:Incomparably:derivation of laws, and—what is incomparably more important—it has
CON:Acquainted
CON:Places
EVI:Permanently:Fig. 2, the _x_-axes of both systems permanently coincide. In the
SEQ:Clocks:Fixed
EVI:Reference:indicates the reference-bodies or systems of coordinates, permissible
EVI:Occur:of lightning occur, this point _M′_ naturally coincides with the point
EVI:Sufficient:appreciate with sufficient clearness what I mean here by “neighbouring”
EVI:Allotted:are invariable with regard to time. No fairer destiny could be allotted
SEQ:Such:Plane
EVI:Carry:But we can carry out this consideration just as well on the basis of
SEQ:Importance:When
EVI:Transmitted:transmitted to this body, and for this reason the body will approach
EVI:Relativity:postulate of relativity excels not only in its beauty; nor in removing
SEQ:Radial:Components
SEQ:Imagine:Each
CON:Absolutely
EVI:Above:imagine the air above it to have been removed. If a ray of light be
SEQ:Rules:Methods
SEQ:Situated:Reality
CON:Assertions
CON:Taxes
SEQ:Accepted:Number
EVI:Measuring:measuring-rods, clocks and material points under the influence of the
EVI:Place:Newton-Kepler motion of a planet in its orbit should take place, and in
EVI:Ought:of elegance ought to be left to the tailor and to the cobbler. I make
SEQ:Same:Other
EVI:Admit:ourselves compelled to admit, all remaining propositions are shown to
EVI:Supposed:attributed the more complicated laws which were supposed to hold
EVI:Four:The four-dimensional mode of consideration of the “world” is natural on
EVI:Reference:are simultaneous _with reference to the railway embankment_ also
EVI:Account:he is holding in his hand. In this connection we have not taken account
SEQ:Comprehensibility:Compared
EVI:Virus:other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
SEQ:Exactly:Equivalent
EVI:General:stars until we come to speak of the general theory of relativity. In
SEQ:Indirect:Means
SEQ:Uniformly:Occupant
EVI:Cause:accelerated body. If now gravitation is the cause of the acceleration,
SEQ:Propagated:Relative
EVI:Lies:planet which lies nearest the sun. Since the time of Leverrier, it has
EVI:Tube:tube plays the part of the railway embankment or of the co-ordinate
EVI:Before:Before the advent of relativity, physics recognised two conservation
EVI:Country:check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
EVI:System:impossible to construct a Cartesian co-ordinate system from equal rods,
SEQ:Intelligible:Form
EVI:However:respect to the æther. It is found by calculation, however, that a
EVI:Must:In order to have a _complete_ description of the motion, we must
CON:Remedy
SEQ:Associated:Every
EVI:Reference:time difference Δ_t_ of the same events with reference to _K_ vanishes.
SEQ:Transcribe:Proofread
SEQ:Request:Work
EVI:Space:XXXII. The Structure of Space According to the General Theory of Relativity
SEQ:Form:Natural
EVI:Question:that these propositions are true?” Let us proceed to give this question
SEQ:Scientific:Description
EVI:Hand:he is holding in his hand. In this connection we have not taken account
CON:Everywhere
EVI:Paying:frequently, without paying the slightest attention to the elegance of
EVI:Such:state of motion is such that the law of inertia holds relative to it is
EVI:Velocity:velocity, and requires no consideration if we are only dealing with the
EVI:Whereas:rods on the central region of the table expand, whereas those on the
SEQ:Translation:Relative
EVI:Measurements:dials. It is just the same in the case of space-measurements by means
CON:Paragraph
EVI:Actual:LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
SEQ:Mechanics:Describe
EVI:Simultaneity:simultaneity, namely, that in every real case it must supply us with an
EVI:Accordance:• You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
SEQ:Than:Results
SEQ:Following:Formula
CON:Opposed
EVI:Both:individual events relative to both reference-bodies, such that every
EVI:Examination:fixed stars; but up to the present the examination of the available
SEQ:Damages:Except
SEQ:Hence:Body
EVI:Ordinates:co-ordinates which allowed of a simple and direct physical
EVI:Expanding:in which the “world radius” depends on time (expanding space). In that
EVI:Relativity:Part II: The General Theory of Relativity
EVI:Rectangular:rectangular co-ordinate system by a new system with its axes pointing
SEQ:Equation:Expresses
SEQ:Plane:Equal
CON:Legitimately
EVI:Floor:if he does not wish to be laid out full length on the floor. He is then
EVI:Ought:is nevertheless 1.7 seconds of arc. This ought to manifest itself in
SEQ:Train:Point
SEQ:Only:Means
EVI:Electronically:opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
EVI:Relativity:the postulate of relativity, that the transmission of the signal in
CON:Derive
SEQ:Force:Come
SEQ:Describe:Ellipse
CON:Systems
EVI:Know:relation to the train, when we know the place and time of the event
CON:Pressure
REL:Means:Exporting
EVI:System:and similarly for the accented system _K′_, then the condition which is
EVI:Method:In one of the most notable of these attempts Michelson devised a method
SEQ:Absent:Have
SEQ:Pedantic:Express
EVI:Special:To what extent is the special theory of relativity supported by
EVI:Agree:arrive at a law of motion of the electron which does not agree with
EVI:Uniform:For example, we learn that a body which is in a state of uniform
CON:Major
EVI:Theory:sense one can say, according to Friedman, that the theory demands an
EVI:Than:to any physical theory, than that it should of itself point out the way
EVI:Nature:ought to possess something of the nature of a centre. Of course we
CON:Different
SEQ:Aberration:Influence
EVI:Ordinate:the points _A, B_ and _C_ of the railway line (co-ordinate system) and
CON:Both
EVI:Terms:even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
EVI:Apart:magnitude _ds_ the “distance” apart of the two events or
EVI:Fulfilled:is fulfilled in general, where λ indicates a constant; for, according
EVI:Assume:and replaced by another which does not assume the validity of Euclidean
EVI:Arrangement:which is determined by the arrangement of little rods.
EVI:According:principle according to the method which has already been explained for
EVI:Follows:revolution of the planet. Our result may also be stated as follows:
SEQ:Answer:Rather
SEQ:Small:Number
REL:Piece:Iron
EVI:Legally:legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
SEQ:Disc:Rest
CON:Thirty
EVI:Mechanics:transformation, but, differing from classical mechanics, the _Lorentz
SEQ:Freely:Shared
EVI:Electronic:destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
SEQ:Itself:Entirely
EVI:Numerical:number of these operations required is the numerical measure of the
EVI:Time:of treating time as an independent continuum. As a matter of fact,
EVI:Space:THE STRUCTURE OF SPACE ACCORDING TO THE GENERAL THEORY OF RELATIVITY
EVI:Other:country other than the United States.
REL:Time:Robbed
EVI:Movement:experience, _i.e._ of experience that we can have in the movement of
EVI:Introduce:the first to introduce the hypothesis that the form of the electron
EVI:Answer:find after some consideration that the answer to this question is not
SEQ:Velocity:Walking
EVI:Indisputable:indisputable. That light requires the same time to traverse the path
EVI:Diagonals:quadrilateral so that its diagonals may be equal. If they are equal of
SEQ:Planet:Moves
SEQ:Formats:Readable
EVI:Spherical:traversed the whole spherical space. It is easily seen that the
SEQ:When:Passing
EVI:Events:sense. For it is composed of individual events, each of which is
EVI:Principle:the basis of the general principle of relativity he is justified in
EVI:Exist:that the relations of the Galileian transformation exist between the
EVI:Description:co-ordinates,” which is a useful idea for mathematical description, we
EVI:Changes:distance (line-interval), independently of any changes in position to
EVI:Chosen:I have chosen this as being more familiar to the English reader than
CON:Signal
SEQ:Such:Inertia
EVI:Consider:consider these important deductions, and we shall also discuss the
SEQ:Follows:Length
EVI:Pure:concept “true” does not tally with the assertions of pure geometry,
CON:Perpendicularly
SEQ:Real:Object
EVI:Accelertion:had in his land, the accelertion of the chest will no longer be
EVI:Flashes:the same time. If the observer perceives the two flashes of lightning
EVI:Seconds:be correct to within a few seconds of arc. This effect can be explained
EVI:Clocks:clocks has by no means the same degree of plausibility as in the
SEQ:System:Large
SEQ:Electron:Rigid
EVI:Required:Classical mechanics required to be modified before it could come into
EVI:Remain:velocity of light _c_. The velocity must therefore always remain less
SEQ:Copy:Defect
EVI:Complicated:attributed the more complicated laws which were supposed to hold
EVI:Place:a complete place specification. On the basis of this illustration, we
REL:Rods:Other
EVI:Take:The extension of this result, to include events which take place
EVI:More:[14] Cf. the somewhat more detailed discussion in Appendix II.
EVI:Embankment:although the carriage changes its position relative to the embankment
SEQ:Accordance:Agreement
CON:Return
EVI:Supplementary:II. Minkowski’s Four-Dimensional Space (“World”) (supplementary to section XVII)
EVI:Mail:you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
SEQ:Body:Reflecting
EVI:These:Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
SEQ:Based:Considerations
EVI:Whether:whether or not both the lightning strokes occurred simultaneously. As
REL:Have:Imagine
EVI:Knowledge:knowledge about the structure of space in the large (“cosmological
EVI:Magnitude:We can express this as follows: The magnitude
SEQ:Stone:Embankment
EVI:Least:“neighbouring” events (realised or at least thinkable) as we care to
SEQ:Interfere:Each
EVI:Event:conditions we understand by the “time” of an event the reading
SEQ:Another:Instance
EVI:Rails:Lightning has struck the rails on our railway embankment at two places
SEQ:Necessarily:Spherical
CON:Continuum
EVI:General:The considerations of Section XX show that the general principle of
CON:Paid
SEQ:Wave:Length
EVI:World:II. Minkowski’s Four-Dimensional Space (“World”) (supplementary to section XVII)
SEQ:Think:Consequence
SEQ:Continuously:Other
EVI:Works:the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
SEQ:Slab:Constitute
SEQ:Same:Given
CON:Walking
CON:Texts
EVI:Theory:PART II: THE GENERAL THEORY OF RELATIVITY
EVI:Concluded:are now no longer tenable. In that section we concluded that the man in
SEQ:Harmless:Liability
EVI:Three:described by four numbers, namely, three space co-ordinates _x, y, z_,
EVI:Detecting:a question of detecting or of describing the motion involved, it is in
EVI:Above:_T_ (see the accompanying diagram, Fig. 3) when the liquid above
EVI:Position:experience. We refer to the yearly movement of the apparent position of
SEQ:Relative:Every
CON:Perceptible
SEQ:Simultaneity:Measuring
EVI:Euclidean:might fittingly be called a quasi-Euclidean universe. As regards its
CON:Http
CON:Touch
EVI:Rapidly:attraction between two masses diminishes more rapidly than would result
SEQ:Independently:Changes
SEQ:Place:Fixed
EVI:Special:the validity of the results of the special theory of relativity
SEQ:Anyone:Anywhere
CON:Refrained
EVI:Neither:plays the part of a limiting velocity, which can neither be reached nor
SEQ:Before:Downloading
SEQ:Millimetre:Only
EVI:Values:values of these two points at the time _t_ = 0 can be shown to be
EVI:According:relativity. According to the special theory of relativity, the
SEQ:Investigator:Rather
CON:Attraction
CON:Applies
EVI:Hold:propagation of light must necessarily hold with respect to the
SEQ:Euclidean:Universe
SEQ:Rest:Respect
EVI:Energy:with the velocity _v_, which absorbs[11] an amount of energy _E_0 in
SEQ:Line:Apparent
SEQ:Continuum:Fact
EVI:Space:IV. The Structure of Space According to the General Theory of Relativity (supplementary to section XXXII)
EVI:Satisfies:defined is fulfilled. That my definition satisfies this demand is
EVI:Means:_not_ derivable from the Galileian special case, simply by means of a
SEQ:Hypothetical:Term
EVI:Such:The reader may think that such a description of the world would be
EVI:Carriage:carriage, traverses the same distance also with respect to the
EVI:Amount:perihelial movement of the orbit of Mercury remained over, the amount
EVI:Conformable:physics which is conformable to the general principle of relativity,
SEQ:Relativity:Shall
SEQ:Demonstrate:Here
EVI:Form:energy in the form
EVI:Tested:In practice, the question is tested in the following way. The stars in
CON:Ellipse
SEQ:Part:Process
EVI:Satisfy:(_a_) The required generalisation must likewise satisfy the general
EVI:Only:registration of stars during a total eclipse of the sun. The only
EVI:Transformations:respect to Lorentz transformations.
SEQ:Ponder:Over
EVI:According:according to the principle of relativity, be the same for the railway
EVI:Principle:the form of the natural extension of the special principle of
SEQ:Work:Project
EVI:Here:It is not clear what is to be understood here by “position” and
SEQ:Exceeded:Real
SEQ:Heated:Marble
CON:Enclose
SEQ:Ideas:Among
SEQ:Theory:Without
SEQ:These:Result
EVI:Possible:it is possible to draw the _u_-curves and _v_-curves and to attach
SEQ:Suffice:Calculate
EVI:Have:in consequence of what we have seen above.
CON:Rotate
SEQ:Leads:Result
EVI:Equation:of co-ordinates. We see this expressed in the last equation of the
EVI:Thus:tenet thus: If, relative to _K_, _K′_ is a uniformly moving co-ordinate
EVI:Relative:distance 1 (relative to _K_) will be represented on our snapshot by the
CON:Rippled
SEQ:Diameter:Disc
EVI:Motion:the floor of the chest with an accelerated relative motion. The
EVI:Cases:We start off again from quite special cases, which we have frequently
EVI:Moving:at a uniform rate. As long as it is moving uniformly, the occupant of
SEQ:Finite:Unbounded
SEQ:Determined:Radius
SEQ:Made:Only
EVI:Square:square constructed with rods. The great charm resulting from this
SEQ:However:Does
EVI:Simplicity:laws would hold than with respect to _K0_. This diminished simplicity
EVI:Compared:is small compared with unity, the third of these terms is always small
CON:Through
EVI:Only:gravitational fields, but only for those of quite special form. It is,
SEQ:Radioactive:Substances
SEQ:Newton:Theory
EVI:Plane:Euclidean geometry of the plane, equal to a constant value π, which is
EVI:General:two theories differ from each other. As an example, a case of general
EVI:Lies:was necessary to surmount a serious difficulty, and as this lies deep
SEQ:Thus:Draw
EVI:Field:curvature of its path when passing through a gravitational field, this
SEQ:Case:Little
EVI:Move:Now in practice we can move clocks and measuring-rods only with
SEQ:Such:Period
EVI:Temperature:slab of the table and local variation of temperature. The temperature
EVI:Manifest:is nevertheless 1.7 seconds of arc. This ought to manifest itself in
EVI:Considerably:considerably reduced the number of independent hypotheses forming the
SEQ:Negative:Axis
EVI:Apparent:VII. The Apparent Incompatability of the Law of Propagation of Light with the Principle of Relativity
CON:Specifications
EVI:Give:or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
SEQ:Velocity:Origin
SEQ:Large:Velocity
EVI:Lightning:of lightning occur, this point _M′_ naturally coincides with the point
SEQ:Reality:Time
SEQ:Annular:Part
EVI:Know:upon as the laws of electricity. At the present time we know that
SEQ:Contact:Links
CON:Hereditary
EVI:Investigations:investigations of H. A. Lorentz on the electrodynamical and optical
EVI:Ebook:*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK RELATIVITY: THE SPECIAL AND GENERAL THEORY ***
CON:Future
EVI:Trademark:the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
EVI:Space:while the original “static” hypothesis of space yielded the closure
SEQ:Move:Respect
EVI:Simultaneous:simultaneous with respect to the train, and _vice versa_ (relativity of
EVI:Also:experiment, we recognise that there must also be cases in which the
EVI:However:There does arise, however, a strange difficulty. The interpretation of
EVI:Mechanics:representation with the help of classical mechanics, there was no need
EVI:Experiences:experiences a downward force in the gravitational field, and this is
EVI:Time:definition of time. We have to imagine each of these clocks fixed at a
CON:Remarked
SEQ:Eclipse:Such
SEQ:Bodies:Reference
EVI:Clearer:of the case clearer by means of an appropriate comparison. Before the
REL:Effect:Temperature
CON:Knowledge
EVI:Paragraph:electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.
SEQ:Mode:Grasping
SEQ:Sets:Numbers
EVI:Consideration:After further consideration you cast a somewhat disdainful glance at
SEQ:Described:Radius
SEQ:Able:Attach
EVI:Ought:do not believe we ought to if we wish to remain consistent; we must
SEQ:Galactic:Nebulae
EVI:Particular:systems, we should have chosen _one_ (_K0_) of a particular state of
EVI:Place:that the lightning flash _B_ took place earlier than the lightning
SEQ:Feel:Like
EVI:Such:numbers to them, in such a manner, that we simply have:
EVI:Nature:then these general laws of nature (_e.g._ the laws of mechanics or the
EVI:Without:Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread
CON:Fairer
SEQ:Time:Coincidence
EVI:Course:system devoid of rotation, then natural phenomena run their course with
SEQ:Relativity:Cannot
SEQ:During:Such
EVI:Same:the same time. If the observer perceives the two flashes of lightning
SEQ:Relative:Uniformly
CON:Reduced
CON:Equally
SEQ:Ourselves:Distasteful
SEQ:Similarly:Accented
EVI:Whether:I ask you whether there is sense in this statement, you will answer my
EVI:System:a system of arbitrary curves (see Fig. 4) drawn on the surface of the
SEQ:Found:Contradictory
EVI:Section:a specific illustration in Section XXIII, we found that the presence of
EVI:Shall:unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
SEQ:Velocity:Should
SEQ:Withheld:Reader
SEQ:Individual:Events
SEQ:Latter:Relative
EVI:Project:generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
CON:Format
EVI:Both:90°) which allows him visually to observe both places _A_ and _B_ at
EVI:Clocks:adjacent clocks (in space) differ from each other by an indefinitely
SEQ:Matriculation:Examination
CON:Avail
EVI:Relativity:general theory of relativity, a ray of light will experience a
EVI:Hold:_mechanics_. But that a principle of such broad generality should hold
EVI:Other:_A_ and _B_ far distant from each other. I make the additional
CON:Whilst
EVI:Observer:observer placed at the mid-point M of the distance _AB_. This observer
EVI:Equations:according to the first of the equations (5)
EVI:Have:For the origin of _K′_ we have permanently _x′_ = 0, and hence
EVI:Velocity:velocity _c_, then for this reason it would appear that another law of
SEQ:Does:Mean
SEQ:Rays:Gravitational
CON:Thing
EVI:Attention:We must draw attention here to one of these deviations. According to
EVI:Three:But the Gaussian method can be applied also to a continuum of three,
SEQ:State:Invalidity
EVI:Analyse:once more analyse its meaning carefully.
SEQ:More:Exactly
SEQ:Distance:Used
SEQ:Position:Developed
EVI:Newtonian:According to Newtonian mechanics and Newton’s law of gravitation, a
EVI:Order:order to find out the general law-of-field of gravitation we still
EVI:Neighbouring:“neighbouring” events (realised or at least thinkable) as we care to
EVI:Following:and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
EVI:Passed:points _A_ and _B_ of the embankment which are just being passed by the
EVI:Considered:situated. Now in reality (considered with reference to the railway
EVI:What:his observations. What will be his experience in this enterprise?
EVI:Part:co-ordinate system _K′_, and finally, the light plays the part of the
EVI:Done:coordinates) as the continuum has dimensions. This is done in such a
EVI:Lightning:When we say that the lightning strokes _A_ and _B_ are simultaneous
CON:Displaced
EVI:Take:red ought to take place for spectral lines produced at the surface of
SEQ:Maintain:Point
SEQ:These:Societies
CON:Introducing
EVI:Have:In accordance with the principle of relativity we shall certainly have
SEQ:Defects:Latter
EVI:Rays:equal to _c_. The same result is obtained for rays of light advancing
SEQ:Difference:Then
EVI:Selected:continuum, has the same value for all selected (Galileian)
SEQ:Meaning:Cannot
EVI:Ordinate:and a time co-ordinate, the time value _t_. The “world” is in this
EVI:Velocities:and for still greater velocities the square-root becomes imaginary.
EVI:Measuring:with his measuring-rod and then the diameter of the disc, on dividing
SEQ:Chest:Together
EVI:Conception:X. On the Relativity of the Conception of Distance
SEQ:Distance:Operative
EVI:Other:other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
EVI:Relativity:relativity puts us in a position to derive properties of the
EVI:First:so easy as it appears at first sight.
EVI:Embankment:man advance relative to the embankment during the process? The only
SEQ:Equivalence:Bodies
SEQ:Royalties:Special
CON:Owner
EVI:Removed:1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:
EVI:Ourselves:hope of success in such an attempt; Let us imagine ourselves
EVI:Acts:produces in its surrounding a gravitational field, which acts on the
SEQ:Passing:Close
EVI:Line:line also loses its meaning. We are therefore not in a position to
EVI:Coincidence:which case two of our little rods can still be brought into coincidence
SEQ:Works:Formats
CON:Rotary
SEQ:Donations:Gratefully
EVI:Then:0. For this value of _t_ we then obtain from the first of the equations
EVI:Relative:total he covers the distance _W = v + w_ relative to the embankment in
EVI:Placed:placed perpendicular to this direction.
EVI:Terms:whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
EVI:Relativity:relativity will be untenable. On the other hand, if the cause of the
EVI:Embankment:reference, which we have styled a “railway embankment.” We suppose a
SEQ:Concerns:Investigation
EVI:Information:Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.
CON:Resolves
SEQ:Distances:Between
CON:Unlink
EVI:Both:both clocks go at the same rate from the standpoint of the non-rotating
EVI:Written:where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
EVI:Such:individual events relative to both reference-bodies, such that every
SEQ:Hold:Relatively
SEQ:Comparison:Relation
EVI:Withal:and their rods withal as the realisation of “distance”? They cannot do
EVI:Same:to _K′_, when the magnitudes _x, y, z, t_, of the same event with
EVI:Leads:obtained by measuring in the train itself. This circumstance leads us
EVI:Instance:body._ For instance, a piece of lead and a piece of wood fall in
EVI:Electrified:radioactive substances consist of negatively electrified particles
EVI:Question:together, and discussed in detail from the standpoint of the question
EVI:Differ:two theories differ from each other. As an example, a case of general
EVI:Empirical:of evolution of an empirical science to be a continuous process of
SEQ:Draw:Lines
EVI:Sent:sent along the embankment, we see from the above that the tip of the
EVI:Circumstances:circumstances as “inertia” or as “weight” (lit. “heaviness”). In the
EVI:Prime:prime factor involved in this contraction we find, not the motion in
EVI:Lorentz:an imaginary time coordinate); the Lorentz transformation corresponds
EVI:Velocities:motions, in which the velocities of matter _v_ are not very small as
EVI:Chest:and he consequently comes to the conclusion that the chest is suspended
EVI:Copyright:additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
EVI:Reference:latter is in motion with reference to other bodies or not. The velocity
EVI:Society:Astronomical Society for the investigation of this important deduction.
EVI:Possessed:The great power possessed by the general principle of relativity lies
EVI:World:The four-dimensional mode of consideration of the “world” is natural on
EVI:Force:despite the shortness of the book, a fair amount of patience and force
EVI:Behaviour:We already know from our previous discussion that the behaviour of
REL:Request:Explain
CON:Satisfy
EVI:Light:of the transmission of light in vacuo is satisfied for one and the same
EVI:Ordinate:co-ordinate systems.” For these systems, the four co-ordinates _x, y,
SEQ:More:Nearly
EVI:Field:gravitational field is absent. But the most attractive problem, to the
SEQ:Difficulty:Prevailing
SEQ:Similarly:World
CON:Ourselves
CON:Angle
CON:Indicate
CON:Thoughts
EVI:Damages:1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
EVI:Refrained:Hitherto I have purposely refrained from speaking about the physical
EVI:Lawson:Translator: Robert W. Lawson
SEQ:Magnet:Shall
EVI:These:the line joining the free ends of these lines a “circle.” For a plane
EVI:Relativity:relativity. The development of theoretical physics shows, however, that
CON:Regards
SEQ:Rods:Experiments
REL:Obvious:Ensure
EVI:Order:order to perceive that they are not living in a Euclidean universe.
REL:Conception:Mass
SEQ:Work:Indicate
SEQ:These:Constants
SEQ:Theoretical:Physicist
EVI:Definite:definite positive answer, and to a perfectly definite transformation
EVI:Project:additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
SEQ:Things:Have
EVI:Justified:the basis of the general principle of relativity he is justified in
EVI:Discuss:consider these important deductions, and we shall also discuss the
EVI:Viewed:order to see how the points of the _x′_-axis appear as viewed from _K_,
EVI:Practice:structure the largest possible logical unity. The practice, for
CON:Least
SEQ:Traverses:Same
CON:Easily
SEQ:Wish:Remain
CON:Volunteers
SEQ:Laws:Ascertained
SEQ:Same:Size
SEQ:Other:Terms
EVI:Formulation:(formulation of the general laws of nature), whatever may be their
SEQ:Minkowski:Work
EVI:Before:Now before the advent of the theory of relativity it had always tacitly
SEQ:Chest:Exactly
SEQ:Here:Motion
EVI:Regards:might fittingly be called a quasi-Euclidean universe. As regards its
SEQ:Conclude:General
EVI:Readers:insight into the theory of Relativity to those readers who, from a
EVI:Over:numbers. I only need state how many rods I must pass over when,
EVI:Donate:agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
CON:Brake
EVI:Created:Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
SEQ:Small:Difference
SEQ:Existence:Time
EVI:Lines:[24] _Proof_—According to the theory of Newton, the number of “lines
CON:Satisfactory
EVI:Including:the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
EVI:Theory:XXX. Cosmological Difficulties of Newton’s Theory
CON:Allow
SEQ:Independent:Time
EVI:Field:of a gravitational field. Nevertheless, the space-distribution of this
EVI:Physical:received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
SEQ:Reference:Call
SEQ:Fees:Agree
SEQ:Next:Planet
SEQ:Clear:Even
CON:Devoid
SEQ:Marble:Slab
EVI:Works:things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
EVI:Given:complete revolution by an amount given by
EVI:Section:than 1, since, according to Section XII, moving bodies suffer a
CON:Claims
EVI:Able:detour in order to be able to apply the postulate of general relativity
EVI:Indicated:and in the direction indicated in Fig 1. People travelling in this
EVI:Country:you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
EVI:Addition:In Section VI we derived the theorem of the addition of velocities in
SEQ:Effect:Gravitation
EVI:Middle:[8] _e.g._ the middle of the first and of the hundredth carriage.
EVI:Again:It is clear that we have the problem of Section VI again before us. The
EVI:Also:line also loses its meaning. We are therefore not in a position to
EVI:Shown:the system _K_ and for the system _K′_. This may be shown in the
SEQ:Stars:Everywhere
EVI:Since:Since the publication of the first edition of this little book, our
EVI:Magnitudes:regarded essentially as magnitudes (results of measurements) capable of
EVI:Body:reference-body (mollusc) used in the description may be chosen.
EVI:Considerable:considerable, the greater is the radius of the circle in comparison
EVI:Value:orbital motion. The value obtained for this rotary movement of the
EVI:Have:and (9), and hence also of (8) and (9). We have thus derived the
SEQ:Must:Honestly
EVI:Embankment:place along the embankment, which had mathematically to assume the
SEQ:Respect:Accordance
EVI:Time:we have to insert a particular value of _t_ (time of _K_), _e.g._ _t_ =
EVI:Time:ON THE IDEA OF TIME IN PHYSICS
EVI:Motion:state of rest or of uniform motion in a straight line. This law not
CON:Appears
EVI:Distance:Euclidean geometry hold for “distances;” the “distance” being
SEQ:Events:Take
SEQ:Rest:Satisfied
EVI:Conflict:of our space without coming into conflict with the laws of thought or
SEQ:Important:Part
EVI:However:However, the Gauss treatment for _ds_2 which we have given above is not
EVI:Length:amounts to about two millionths of the wave-length. A trustworthy
SEQ:Sins:Against
EVI:About:knowledge about the structure of space in the large (“cosmological
EVI:Question:ground?” The usual answer to this question is: “Because it is attracted
EVI:Generalisation:(_a_) The required generalisation must likewise satisfy the general
EVI:Values:Adjacent points correspond to adjacent values of the coordinates. If a
EVI:Difficulty:There does arise, however, a strange difficulty. The interpretation of
EVI:Relativity:THE PRINCIPLE OF RELATIVITY
EVI:Relativity:considerations, was the _special_ principle of relativity, _i.e._ the
EVI:Called:_x_2, _x_3, _x_4, was called “world” by Minkowski, who also termed a
SEQ:Space:Continuum
EVI:Accordance:accordance with the special theory of relativity, certain co-ordinate
EVI:Before:is too small in comparison with the mass _m_, which was present before
EVI:Light:are small as compared with the velocity of transmission of light. We
EVI:Right:1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
EVI:Every:solid bodies. In every such framework we imagine three surfaces
CON:Serve
SEQ:Independently:Positions
SEQ:Area:Surface
EVI:Hold:Since equation (8_a_) must hold for points on the _x_-axis, we thus
CON:Completely
REL:System:Arbitrary
CON:Satisfies
SEQ:Book:Fair
CON:Vaguely
SEQ:Significance:Statement
EVI:Inclined:more inclined to reject the principle of relativity, in spite of the
SEQ:Relations:Must
EVI:Galileian:IV. THE GALILEIAN SYSTEM OF CO-ORDINATES
CON:Lake
EVI:Velocity:The velocity of propagation ot a ray of light relative to the carriage
EVI:Many:numbers. I only need state how many rods I must pass over when,
SEQ:Trademark:Owner
EVI:Coordinates:coordinates) as the continuum has dimensions. This is done in such a
EVI:Transformation:transformation are valid. These last form the basis for the derivation
EVI:Same:both lengths being measured with the same rod, is, according to
EVI:Alone:in comparison with the second, which last is alone considered in
EVI:Attached:rope attached, and now a “being” (what kind of a being is immaterial to
EVI:Corrupt:or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
EVI:Validity:in this sense we understand its validity for a construction with rule
EVI:Xxix:XXIX. The Solution of the Problem of Gravitation on the Basis of the General Principle of Relativity
EVI:Particular:facts, supplies us then with that particular law of motion which has
SEQ:Construction:Longer
SEQ:Recognition:Fact
EVI:Characterised:its permanent existence must be characterised by an infinitely large
SEQ:Independent:Diameter
EVI:Equation:satisfies equation (11) for σ = 1; for (11) is a consequence of (8_a_)
SEQ:Assuming:Motion
EVI:Project:Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
SEQ:System:Becomes
EVI:During:registration of stars during a total eclipse of the sun. The only
EVI:Instance:four or more dimensions. If, for instance, a continuum of four
EVI:Read:PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK
SEQ:Intended:Possible
EVI:Conception:empirical decision as to whether or not the conception that has to be
SEQ:Circle:Least
EVI:Body:positions (possessing names) on the rigid body of reference. In the
EVI:Thus:hundredths of a millimetre only. Thus great accuracy was necessary in
EVI:Maintains:The principle we have made use of not only maintains that we may
SEQ:Domain:Licensed
EVI:Small:estimated difference between these two times is exceedingly small,
CON:Negative
REL:Train:Exactly
EVI:Difficulty:this connection the difficulty mentioned in Section XXX finds its
SEQ:Axis:Point
EVI:Line:situated on a straight line, if their apparent positions can be made to
SEQ:Terms:Redistributing
EVI:Galilei:Galilei-Newton, which is known as the _law of inertia_, can be stated
SEQ:Mass:Acceleration
EVI:Principle:is very powerful argument in favour of the principle of relativity.
EVI:Course:Of course the conviction of the “truth” of geometrical propositions in
SEQ:Rotate:Doing
CON:Please
REL:Definition:Time
EVI:Term:the field equations, a term which was not required by the theory as
SEQ:Rate:Little
EVI:Being:relative to the embankment, in this second, the distance w being
EVI:Exclude:by the distribution of matter. This in itself is sufficient to exclude
EVI:Only:even if I have never before seen a gas flame. For I can only say that
EVI:Directions:space, _i.e._ a physical non-equivalence of different directions. This
SEQ:Properties:Thus
SEQ:Themselves:These
SEQ:Every:Galileian
SEQ:Relative:Train
SEQ:Difference:Reference
SEQ:Equations:Such
EVI:Reference:seen from a reference-body _K′_ which is accelerated relatively to _K_.
SEQ:Relations:Hold
SEQ:Many:Points
SEQ:Body:Space
EVI:Possible:observation possible at the present time; but that in the case of
SEQ:Influences:Gravitational
EVI:Fall:body._ For instance, a piece of lead and a piece of wood fall in
EVI:However:of the carriage. As a consequence of his walking, however, he traverses
SEQ:Then:Also
REL:Opportunity:Receive
EVI:Relativity:carriage—a result contradictory to the principle of relativity.
SEQ:Found:Lorentz
EVI:Then:reference-body _K_, we then find that they do not hold for a
SEQ:Being:Particular
SEQ:Minimum:Instead
EVI:Star:every fixed star describes a circle of immense radius in the course of
REL:Difficulty:Understanding
EVI:Work:Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
CON:Exact
SEQ:Time:Astronomers
EVI:Right:_M_ but it moves towards the right in the diagram with the velocity v
REL:Space:Independent
SEQ:Emitted:Observers
EVI:Must:situated there. These data must be supplemented by such a definition of
EVI:Directions:Suppose we draw lines or stretch strings in all directions from a
EVI:Knowledge:Relying on his knowledge of the gravitational field (as it was
EVI:Reason:for the following reason. As a result of the more careful study of
EVI:Inserting:inserting the values of these constants in (5), we obtain the first and
SEQ:Kind:Sense
SEQ:Consideration:Section
EVI:Examination:the same velocity as along the length _B_ → _M_. But an examination of
EVI:Present:is too small in comparison with the mass _m_, which was present before
EVI:Railway:the flying raven from the moving railway carriage. we should find that
EVI:Agreement:Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
SEQ:Actual:Case
SEQ:Xxxii:Structure
EVI:Belongs:belongs to a Euclidean continuum of three dimensions. If we imagine
SEQ:Relativity:Conception
SEQ:Embankment:These
EVI:Dimensions:dimensions be supposed available, we may represent it in the following
CON:Lengths
EVI:Protected:Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
SEQ:Square:Origin
EVI:Number:which, in general, is built up logically from a small number of
SEQ:Alteration:Modification
EVI:Shortened:system of Michelson and Morley is not shortened, but it _is_ shortened
EVI:Perpendiculars:space with respect to _K_ by the three perpendiculars _x, y, z_ on the
EVI:Then:numbers lying between 1 and 2. We have then a system of _u_-curves, and
EVI:Large:its permanent existence must be characterised by an infinitely large
SEQ:Deflection:These
SEQ:Have:Insert
SEQ:Yearly:Movement
EVI:Path:curvature of its path when passing through a gravitational field, this
EVI:Friedman:sense one can say, according to Friedman, that the theory demands an
SEQ:Continuum:Only
EVI:Combination:combination and generalisation of the hypotheses, formerly independent
SEQ:Length:Less
SEQ:Method:Riemann
EVI:Position:their position.
EVI:Section:(developed in Section VII) disappears.
EVI:Time:(Galileian) reference-body _K_ by the space-time variables _x′, y′, z′,
SEQ:Connection:Experiment
EVI:Surface:proportional to ρ0_V_. For unit area of the surface of the sphere the
SEQ:Answer:Occur
EVI:Embankment:(_b_) The embankment is in motion relative to the carriage.
SEQ:Variations:Temperature
EVI:Newton:calculation, deviations from the theory of Newton make their
EVI:Then:gravitational field. just then, however, he discovers the hook in the
EVI:Light:of light varies with position. Now we might think that as a consequence
SEQ:Distribution:Matter
SEQ:Here:Position
SEQ:Love:Magnificent
CON:Simplicity
EVI:Condition:condition that, from amongst all possible Galileian co-ordinate
EVI:Finite:nature. Such a finite material universe would be destined to become
EVI:Project:payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
CON:Collection
CON:Invisible
SEQ:Points:Embankment
SEQ:Take:Granted
EVI:Point:space co-ordinates as opposed to the time co-ordinate. Every point on
EVI:Obtain:this. For if they attempt to realise a straight line, they will obtain
SEQ:Establish:Successfully
EVI:Requirements:either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
EVI:Embankment:the embankment with the velocity _v_, and inquire as to their distance
EVI:Such:simultaneity such that this definition supplies us with the method by
SEQ:Universe:Deviate
EVI:Gaussian:Gaussian four-dimensional co-ordinate system chosen arbitrarily. That
EVI:Spirit:sins against the sacred spirit of lucidity were I to formulate the aims
SEQ:Construction:Different
EVI:Example:continua. For example, this obviously holds in the case of the marble
EVI:Each:which the electrical masses are quite at rest relatively to each other,
SEQ:Obtained:Exceedingly
SEQ:Results:Last
SEQ:Nevertheless:Escape
EVI:Numerically:numerically equal to the velocity with which he is walking. Thus in
EVI:Numbers:numbers to them, in such a manner, that we simply have:
EVI:Between:orbital plane, viz. between the circle of least and the circle of
EVI:These:effects produced on the light reaching us from the fixed stars. These
EVI:Mercury:been known that the ellipse corresponding to the orbit of Mercury,
EVI:Also:_v_-curves, and thus also relative to the surface of the table. For the
SEQ:Simultaneous:Respect
REL:Position:Space
SEQ:Proceeding:Being
SEQ:Reason:Rigid
SEQ:Until:Come
EVI:Gravitation:an observer inside who is equipped with apparatus. Gravitation
EVI:Constructions:of the co-ordinates are not actually determined by constructions with
EVI:Continuum:the part of the continuum under our notice.
SEQ:Employees:Expend
SEQ:Ordinates:Allowed
EVI:Exactly:respect to _K′_ according to exactly the same general laws as with
EVI:Insufficient:more and more evident that classical mechanics affords an insufficient
CON:Hear
EVI:Charge:1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
SEQ:Required:Energy
CON:Slurs
EVI:Geometry:magnitude of our sun. We might imagine that, as regards geometry, our
SEQ:Theory:Plausible
SEQ:Observed:Motion
CON:Mutual
CON:Decision
EVI:Calculation:means of purely theoretical operations (_i.e._ simply by calculation)
SEQ:Infinite:Universe
EVI:Intellect:convincingly to the intellect because it is so natural and simple. The
EVI:Fizeau:[10] Fizeau found
EVI:Project:Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
EVI:Planet:distance sun-planet exhibits periodic variations; but in this case the
SEQ:Diminish:Conclusiveness
SEQ:Self:Contained
EVI:Four:co-ordinate systems.” For these systems, the four co-ordinates _x, y,
SEQ:Behaviour:Behaviour
EVI:Since:since calculations show that the metrics of surrounding space is
SEQ:Cast:Doubt
EVI:Favour:unequivocally in its favour.
CON:Section
EVI:Continuum:XXVI. The Space-Time Continuum of the Special Theory of Relativity Considered as a Euclidean Continuum
SEQ:Further:Increasing
REL:Library:Electronic
EVI:Motion:The theory of relativity leads to the same law of motion, without
SEQ:Systems:Four
EVI:Provided:slab, provided that the ends of one of our rods could be made to
EVI:Then:according to the rules of geometry; then, starting from _A_, we can
EVI:Body:For example, we learn that a body which is in a state of uniform
EVI:Especial:their own accord, then this is an especial favour of the marble slab
SEQ:Clock:Edge
SEQ:Line:Respect
EVI:Question:question with a decided “Yes.” But if I now approach you with the
SEQ:Curvature:Light
EVI:Four:every point of the continuum (event) four numbers, _x_1, _x_2, _x_3,
EVI:General:in this way, yet we may entertain the hope that the general law of
EVI:Plane:able to regard the geometry of their universe as being plane geometry
SEQ:Liquid:Velocity
CON:Lorentz
EVI:Alteration:or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
SEQ:Small:Detected
CON:Single
EVI:Plain:of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
SEQ:Free:Ourselves
SEQ:Have:Kind
EVI:Tested:able to hold its own when tested by experience.
SEQ:Slab:Thus
EVI:Fourth:_x_ the value _ct_ in the first and fourth equations of the Lorentz
SEQ:Body:Something
EVI:Theorem:expresses the theorem of the addition of velocities employed in
EVI:Regards:that suggests itself to us is surely this: As regards space (and time)
SEQ:Other:Each
SEQ:Flowing:Through
EVI:When:the right when he believes that a general law of gravitation can be
EVI:Subject:even in a popular presentation of the subject.
EVI:Donations:array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
CON:Speculations
REL:States:Most
SEQ:Observations:Whether
REL:Place:Such
EVI:Considered:XXVI. The Space-Time Continuum of the Special Theory of Relativity Considered as a Euclidean Continuum
SEQ:Velocity:Same
EVI:Line:this. For if they attempt to realise a straight line, they will obtain
EVI:Ideas:require to extend our ideas of the space-time continuum still farther.
EVI:Rope:will interpret the condition of things thus: “The rope must perforce
EVI:Phenomena:Maxwell-Lorentz theory of electromagnetic phenomena. Thus all facts of
EVI:Lightning:the same time. If the observer perceives the two flashes of lightning
SEQ:Body:Manifests
EVI:Beings:on a spherical surface instead of on a plane. The flat beings with
SEQ:Invariable:Regard
SEQ:Structure:Lofty
EVI:Common:system of co-ordinate values, _x_1, _x_2, _x_3, _x_4, in common. After
SEQ:Exactly:Idea
EVI:Lorentz:can be represented in the Maxwell-Lorentz theory only by the
SEQ:Such:Every
EVI:Doing:doing this. The force acting on himself, and in fact on all other
EVI:Laws:variations from the laws of classical mechanics are too small to make
EVI:Gravitational:the potential of the gravitational field in which it is situated._
EVI:Find:abscissa _x′_ and the time _t′_. We require to find _x′_ and _t′_ when
EVI:Those:Those space-time points (events) which satisfy (1) must also satisfy
EVI:Line:meaning. We cannot ask whether it is true that only one straight line
EVI:Minkowski:important idea contributed by Minkowski. Without it the general theory
CON:Combination
CON:Love
EVI:Relativity:theory of relativity. As being of particular importance, I mention here
SEQ:Therefore:Expect
EVI:Suppose:[7] We suppose further that, when three events _A, B_ and _C_ occur in
SEQ:Investigations:Lorentz
EVI:Takes:The action of the earth on the stone takes place indirectly. The earth
CON:Absolute
SEQ:Respect:Particle
EVI:Time:conditions we understand by the “time” of an event the reading
EVI:Theoretical:has considerably simplified the theoretical structure, _i.e._ the
CON:Seem
SEQ:Together:Mirrors
EVI:Agree:Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
EVI:Derived:another conclusion from the theory, one which can easily be derived
EVI:Also:pair of events _A, C_ is also satisfied. This assumption is a physical
REL:Instead:Newton
SEQ:Three:Perpendiculars
SEQ:Exactness:Velocity
EVI:Following:following. If at any moment three squares meet at a corner, then two
EVI:Time:VIII. On the Idea of Time in Physics
EVI:Radius:possesses a finite volume, which is determined by its “radius”
EVI:Something:practically rigid body is something which is lodged deeply in our habit
SEQ:Geometry:Must
CON:Declare
EVI:Special:_not_ derivable from the Galileian special case, simply by means of a
EVI:Slovenliness:slovenliness of treatment, which, as we know from the special theory of
EVI:Others:others; for any one of these laws would be founded just as little on
SEQ:Spherical:Elliptical
SEQ:Liquid:Particular
EVI:Pursuance:If, in pursuance of our habit of thought, we now supplement the
EVI:Require:we require a “distance” (rod _S_) which is to be used once and for all,
SEQ:Times:Events
EVI:Also:carriage, traverses the same distance also with respect to the
EVI:Further:I further want to remark that the theory of expanding space, together
EVI:Meteorologist:of ingenious considerations an able meteorologist were to discover that
EVI:Must:ellipse of every planet round the sun must necessarily rotate in the
EVI:Advance:We advance a step farther in our generalisation when we express the
SEQ:Alluded:Reference
CON:Intensity
EVI:Unit:proportional to ρ0_V_. For unit area of the surface of the sphere the
SEQ:Analytical:Geometrical
SEQ:Then:General
EVI:Distinguish:the _special theory of relativity_ to distinguish it from the extended
EVI:Time:space-time continuum of the theory of relativity, in its most essential
EVI:Formulation:co-ordinate systems are essentially equivalent for the formulation of
SEQ:Intervention:Some
SEQ:Present:Juncture
SEQ:Practice:Question
REL:Wish:Understand
CON:Authorised
REL:Able:Construct
EVI:Disc:where ω represents the angular velocity of rotation of the disc _K′_
EVI:Lines:stars as compared with the spectral lines of the same element produced
SEQ:Warranties:Exclusion
SEQ:Variable:Accordance
EVI:Determined:removed from the body are thence determined by the law which governs
SEQ:Chosen:Arbitrarily
EVI:Also:velocity of transmission relative to the reference-body _K′_ is also
SEQ:When:Only
EVI:When:events with respect to _K′_ does not in general vanish, even when the
SEQ:Other:Example
EVI:Iron:magnetic field operates on the piece of iron, so that the latter
CON:Justified
SEQ:Pure:Space
EVI:Whose:referred, supplemented in such a manner that the object whose position
SEQ:First:Equations
SEQ:Time:Classical
EVI:Question:it has long been known that the last question is not only unanswerable
SEQ:Often:Termed
EVI:Transformation:case simply by transformation of the coordinates. This behaviour is
CON:Convinced
SEQ:Fact:Substitute
SEQ:Time:Since
SEQ:Respect:Uniformly
CON:Accented
CON:Sensibly
EVI:Natural:formulation of natural laws. Our course was more on the following
EVI:Respect:construction, and which are considered at rest with respect to the
EVI:Stages:science has emerged from its initial stages, theoretical advances are
CON:Unbounded
SEQ:Laid:Down
SEQ:Second:Class
SEQ:Transition:Gauss
SEQ:Truth:Limited
EVI:Classical:Even though classical mechanics does not supply us with a sufficiently
CON:Enable
EVI:Relativity:according to the principle of relativity, be the same for the railway
SEQ:Relativity:Hold
SEQ:Light:Frequency
SEQ:Vacuo:Satisfied
EVI:Maintained:classical mechanics, cannot be maintained; in other words, the law that
EVI:Demand:demand any fundamentally new method.
EVI:Provide:to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
SEQ:Standard:Measuring
EVI:Motion:Galilei) is executing an accelerated and in general curvilinear motion
EVI:Gutenberg:full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.
SEQ:Relative:Gravitational
EVI:Such:solid bodies. In every such framework we imagine three surfaces
SEQ:Latter:Effect
EVI:Laws:are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws
CON:Larger
EVI:Without:as a process impossible without the intervention of some intermediary
SEQ:Virtue:These
SEQ:These:Follows
EVI:Fizeau:XIII. Theorem of the Addition of Velocities. The Experiment of Fizeau
EVI:State:gravitational field exists relative to a reference-body _K_ whose state
EVI:Call:fundamental assumptions, the so-called axioms. We call such a system of
SEQ:Warranties:Merchantability
SEQ:Field:Itself
EVI:Foundation:The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
EVI:Mentioned:problem”) has had an important development, which ought to be mentioned
SEQ:Observations:Form
REL:Each:These
EVI:Example:example, of seeing in a “distance” two marked positions on a
EVI:Equations:field equations of gravitation. Hubble’s discovery can, therefore, be
SEQ:Obtain:Permission
EVI:Walking:of the carriage. As a consequence of his walking, however, he traverses
EVI:Notable:In one of the most notable of these attempts Michelson devised a method
SEQ:Orientation:Space
EVI:Motion:were to be regarded as in motion with respect to the æther. To this
EVI:Difficult:It is not difficult to understand why, in spite of this, we feel
CON:Alters
SEQ:Neighbourhood:Position
EVI:Empirical:in Section XXI; nor in interpreting the empirical law of the equality
CON:Atom
EVI:Experiment:experiment gave a negative result—a fact very perplexing to physicists.
CON:Methods
EVI:Relative:tenet thus: If, relative to _K_, _K′_ is a uniformly moving co-ordinate
EVI:Relativity:theory of relativity the method of interpretation is incomparably more
EVI:Compelled:ourselves compelled to admit, all remaining propositions are shown to
EVI:Even:even need to be of such a kind that we must regard _x_1, _x_2, _x_3, as
EVI:Being:reason nor known mechanical laws. Even though it is being accelerated
EVI:Themselves:enough to make themselves perceptible as a change in the inertial mass
SEQ:Permanently:Uniform
CON:Assumption
SEQ:Means:Measuring
SEQ:Foundation:Committed
CON:Propagation
EVI:Satisfy:point on the non-rigid reference-body. These clocks satisfy only the
EVI:Empirical:fact that no empirical data had been found which were contradictory to
EVI:Measurement:for the measurement of a distance, with respect to which body the
SEQ:Motion:Uniform
EVI:State:for the formulation of natural laws, provided that they are in a state
EVI:Observe:90°) which allows him visually to observe both places _A_ and _B_ at
EVI:Format:same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
SEQ:Element:Produced
SEQ:Second:Photograph
SEQ:Judged:Ordinate
EVI:Rest:But no person whose mode of thought is logical can rest satisfied with
SEQ:Infinity:Without
SEQ:Points:Axis
EVI:Manner:function of a straight line. In the manner indicated in Section II we
EVI:Corresponding:determine the corresponding values of the time by the observation of
REL:Clocks:Identical
EVI:Effect:of importance for its effect in exciting a field.
EVI:Point:another point: it is shown by calculation that for a given velocity _v_
EVI:Section:of Section XVIII. It is certainly true that the observer in the railway
EVI:Must:(_c_) Gravitational field and matter together must satisfy the law of
CON:Once
SEQ:Wait:Total
EVI:Latter:results the latter theory has hitherto evinced.
SEQ:Equal:Velocity
EVI:Natural:to the theory of relativity, the “time” _x_4, enters into natural laws
EVI:These:these laws do not hold.
SEQ:Since:Points
CON:Slightly
SEQ:Points:Railway
SEQ:Laws:Place
EVI:Same:individual rods always represent the same distance, independently of
EVI:Surface:Thus if the spherical surface beings are living on a planet of which
SEQ:Changes:Position
SEQ:Then:Criterion
SEQ:Luminous:Something
SEQ:Amount:Proportional
EVI:Detectable:which this difference should have been clearly detectable. But the
SEQ:True:Observer
SEQ:Points:Defined
SEQ:Promotion:Distribution
EVI:Admit:hypothesis (2). Namely, the original field equations admit a solution
SEQ:Analyse:Meaning
CON:Excels
EVI:According:According to Newtonian mechanics and Newton’s law of gravitation, a
SEQ:Variable:Detail
CON:Origin
EVI:Counter:two “counter-points” are identical (indistinguishable from each other).
EVI:Description:description; it is not tied down to the Euclidean character of the
EVI:Negatively:radioactive substances consist of negatively electrified particles
EVI:General:general theory of relativity, it is perhaps advisable to make the facts
SEQ:Universe:Three
CON:Salt
SEQ:Evident:Principle
EVI:Works:works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
SEQ:Cost:Modification
EVI:Equivalence:space, _i.e._ a physical non-equivalence of different directions. This
SEQ:Localised:Axis
SEQ:Rigid:Surfaces
EVI:File:Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
SEQ:Nothing:About
SEQ:Eclipse:Because
EVI:Governing:From our point of view this means: The law governing the properties of
SEQ:Consequence:However
EVI:Call:is independent of the choice of the body of reference. We call the
EVI:Identical:two “counter-points” are identical (indistinguishable from each other).
EVI:Modification:By making use of the following modification of this abstract
EVI:Field:influence of the gravitational field on measuring-rods, clocks and
EVI:Explain:request to explain to me the sense of the statement more precisely, you
EVI:According:rigid measuring-rods performed according to the rules and methods laid
EVI:Throughout:_K0_ throughout the whole year. However, the most careful observations
SEQ:Recognised:Most
SEQ:Construct:Cartesian
REL:Confirmation:Compliance
CON:Teachers
EVI:Plane:the line joining the free ends of these lines a “circle.” For a plane
SEQ:Relativity:Puts
EVI:Rest:at rest in the gravitational field.
SEQ:Tested:Following
EVI:Understand:in this sense we understand its validity for a construction with rule
EVI:Rest:carriage, as hold with reference to the carriage when at rest or in
EVI:Assume:place along the embankment, which had mathematically to assume the
EVI:Time:time the atmosphere is so strongly illuminated by the light from the
CON:Think
EVI:Uniform:absolute physical reality to non-uniform motion, in opposition to the
REL:Order:Remove
SEQ:Different:Terms
EVI:First:as set forth in detail in the first part of this book. For the
EVI:Work:States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
EVI:Thinkable:“neighbouring” events (realised or at least thinkable) as we care to
EVI:Rest:state of rest or of uniform motion in a straight line. This law not
SEQ:However:Gauss
EVI:Points:a straight line when the points _A_ and _C_ being given, _B_ is chosen
SEQ:Downloading:Copying
EVI:Answer:After some time perhaps the following answer would occur to you: “The
EVI:Action:According to the theory of relativity, action at a distance with the
EVI:Because:clearly of all, and because of this objection he claimed that mechanics
REL:Formulation:Natural
EVI:Euclidean:order to perceive that they are not living in a Euclidean universe.
EVI:Agreement:violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
EVI:Phenomena:broad basis for the theoretical presentation of all physical phenomena,
EVI:Space:space co-ordinates as opposed to the time co-ordinate. Every point on
EVI:Body:condition of motion of the body of reference.
EVI:Does:events with respect to _K′_ does not in general vanish, even when the
SEQ:Certain:Fixed
EVI:Relativity:XXXII. The Structure of Space According to the General Theory of Relativity
CON:Optical
EVI:Research:of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
SEQ:Those:Quite
SEQ:Confronted:Section
EVI:Receipt:you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
SEQ:Biology:Darwinian
EVI:Present:nebulae. This can be interpreted in regard to our present knowledge
CON:Simple
SEQ:Less:Exact
EVI:Mechanics:Classical mechanics required to be modified before it could come into
EVI:Field:judged from it, the gravitational field of the earth (in its entirety)
EVI:Right:1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
SEQ:Ultimately:Become
EVI:Still:the man were to stand still for a second, he would advance relative to
SEQ:Fields:Only
EVI:Discussed:Part from the difficulty discussed in Section XXI, there is a second
REL:Relativity:Grown
SEQ:Other:Make
EVI:Four:Gaussian four-dimensional co-ordinate system chosen arbitrarily. That
CON:Decisive
EVI:Corresponding:corresponding to that of a university matriculation examination, and,
EVI:Between:“size-relations” (“distances” between neighbouring points) are defined.
SEQ:Between:Circle
SEQ:Rails:Body
SEQ:First:Observed
EVI:Since:Since equation (8_a_) must hold for points on the _x_-axis, we thus
SEQ:Continuum:Given
SEQ:Point:Every
SEQ:Follows:Bodies
EVI:Time:planet which lies nearest the sun. Since the time of Leverrier, it has
CON:Known
CON:Repeated
EVI:Delicacy:exactness corresponding to that of the delicacy of observation
SEQ:More:Clearly
SEQ:Needs:Further
CON:Whom
CON:Spectral
SEQ:Star:Describes
EVI:Translation:Authorised Translation by Robert W. Lawson
EVI:Radius:surface would ultimately become infinite with increasing radius _R_ of
SEQ:Theory:Shall
SEQ:Consideration:Shows
REL:Need:Think
EVI:Force:us) begins pulling at this with a constant force. The chest together
EVI:Every:Every general law of nature must be so constituted that it is
EVI:Such:law, the motion would still take place in such a manner that the
SEQ:Without:Caprice
EVI:Relativity:THE SPACE-TIME CONTINUUM OF THE SPECIAL THEORY OF RELATIVITY CONSIDERED
SEQ:Line:Should
EVI:Ground:observations of the cloud from different positions on the ground, and
EVI:Importance:discovery of Minkowski, which was of importance for the formal
EVI:Emits:_An atom absorbs or emits light of a frequency which is dependent on
EVI:User:to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
SEQ:Necessary:Until
EVI:Restricted:(in the restricted sense).
SEQ:Themselves:Evident
SEQ:Must:Obtain
EVI:Electron:each other, the negative electrical masses constituting the electron
EVI:Radius:[25] For the radius _R_ of the universe we obtain the equation
EVI:Body:In (_a_) the embankment, in (_b_) the carriage, serves as the body of
EVI:Remaining:remaining provisions.
SEQ:Equation:Consequence
EVI:Gaussian:amount are assigned to adjacent points. The Gaussian coordinate system
EVI:Regarded:bodies can even be regarded as a measure of its energy. The law of the
SEQ:Other:Process
EVI:Radially:displaced radially outwards (away from the centre of the sun) by an
REL:Permission:Without
EVI:Agreement:comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
SEQ:Relatively:Rest
EVI:Including:liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
SEQ:Such:Systems
CON:Formulates
EVI:Light:time the atmosphere is so strongly illuminated by the light from the
EVI:Section:disc, will, in accordance with Section XII, be given by
SEQ:Based:Opposes
SEQ:Royal:Royal
EVI:Points:the distance between the points being
CON:Particles
EVI:Slab:is practically constant for a small part of the slab, and thus the
EVI:Interpret:chest would not be able to interpret the behaviour of the bodies around
EVI:Relativity:relativity became ripe for discussion, and it did not appear impossible
EVI:Travelling:travelling uniformly, and drop a stone on the embankment, without
EVI:Axis:Place a metre-rod in the _x′_-axis of _K′_ in such a manner that one
EVI:Considerations:The considerations of Section XX show that the general principle of
CON:Service
SEQ:Characterise:Every
CON:Seen
SEQ:Unique:Ordinate
EVI:Field:is projected through a gravitational field. As a result of this theory,
CON:Premises
EVI:Involved:of the inaccuracy involved by the finiteness of the velocity of
EVI:Points:significance, but only serve the purpose of numbering the points of the
REL:Costs:Expenses
SEQ:Relativity:What
EVI:Such:through the air in such a manner that its motion, as observed from the
SEQ:Process:Acceleration
SEQ:Comply:Both
REL:Question:Connected
EVI:During:simultaneously for different colours during the eclipse of a fixed star
EVI:Necessarily:propagation of light must necessarily hold with respect to the
SEQ:Influence:Mutual
CON:Laterally
SEQ:Start:Full
EVI:Velocity:course much less. Let us inquire about the velocity of propagation of
SEQ:Direction:Travel
EVI:Know:apart. We already know that it is necessary to have a body of reference
EVI:Whereas:it is difficult to form an opinion as to its existence. Whereas Grebe
EVI:Completely:completely determined. But I am now no longer able to adjust the
EVI:Terms:additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
SEQ:Axis:Light
EVI:Foundation:Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
EVI:Equal:numerically equal to the velocity with which he is walking. Thus in
EVI:Reference:reference-body _K_, we then find that they do not hold for a
EVI:Disc:the centre of the disc has no velocity, whereas the clock at the edge
EVI:Them:“reference-body” and derivable from them; only _experience_ can decide
EVI:Described:angle described by the line joining sun and planet during such a period
SEQ:Considerations:Section
EVI:Time:judged from this reference-body, the time which elapses between two
SEQ:Testing:Whether
SEQ:Between:Curves
SEQ:Pursuance:Habit
EVI:Imagine:at school. Who would imagine that this simple law has plunged the
EVI:Order:detour in order to be able to apply the postulate of general relativity
EVI:Analogously:universe behaves analogously to a surface which is irregularly curved
EVI:Copying:performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
EVI:Have:In the example of the transmission of light just dealt with, we have
EVI:Bodies:bodies.[27]
EVI:Electrodynamics:development of electrodynamics the laws of electrostatics were looked
EVI:Justification:thought a _theory_. The theory finds the justification for its
CON:Quadrilateral
EVI:Special:Title: Relativity: The Special and General Theory
CON:Appertaining
EVI:Linear:linear homogeneous functions of _x_1, _x_2, _x_3 which identically
EVI:Must:Of course we must refer the process of the propagation of light (and
SEQ:Hitherto:Remained
SEQ:Concerning:Treatment
EVI:Relation:transformation, this simple relation between _x_ and _t_ involves a
SEQ:Planet:Revolving
SEQ:Regarded:Development
EVI:Meaning:way, that only one meaning can be attached to the assignment, and that
SEQ:Defining:Cartesian
EVI:Three:belongs to a Euclidean continuum of three dimensions. If we imagine
EVI:Experiment:mentioned in connection with the fundamental experiment of Fizeau. The
SEQ:Things:Rigid
EVI:Purpose:LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.
SEQ:Other:Things
SEQ:Flashes:Judged
SEQ:Influence:Gravitational
SEQ:Laws:Most
EVI:Similarly:and similarly for the accented system _K′_, then the condition which is
CON:Rapidly
EVI:Require:require any external agency for its maintenance, _e.g._ in the case
EVI:Necessarily:would necessarily escape detection.[26]
EVI:Have:If we are to have in the universe an average density of matter which
EVI:Ebook:of the country where you are located before using this eBook.
EVI:Large:existence in the fact that it correlates a large number of single
EVI:These:difficulties? Let us consider how these difficulties arise.
SEQ:Fulfilled:Maintain
EVI:Reality:In the first place, it can be compared with the reality. Although a
SEQ:Place:Statement
SEQ:During:Interval
SEQ:Donate:Royalties
SEQ:Einstein:Time
SEQ:Rays:Being
SEQ:Nearly:Like
EVI:Light:If in place of the law of transmission of light we had taken as our
CON:Creating
CON:Highest
EVI:Motion:the law of motion is of any kind, however irregular, serve for the
EVI:Detail:together, and discussed in detail from the standpoint of the question
REL:Devoid:Rotation
SEQ:Come:Project
SEQ:Magnitude:Radius
EVI:Lightning:perceives the lightning flashes travels along the length _A_ → _M_ with
SEQ:Represents:Angular
EVI:Present:man walking along the carriage, or of the moving point in the present
EVI:Again:without ever again coming into interaction with other objects of
EVI:Based:Thus all our previous conclusions based on general relativity would
SEQ:Rigid:Bodies
SEQ:Hand:Owing
EVI:Reference:judged from this reference-body, the time which elapses between two
EVI:According:In Section XXII it has been already mentioned that according to the
CON:Swarm
SEQ:Whose:State
EVI:Number:measured with a little rod, by means of the very small number _ds_.
EVI:Mercury:not suffice to calculate the observed motion of Mercury with an
REL:Laws:Your
EVI:Nature:rigid bodies and clocks, which shall be of such a nature that
EVI:Arise:including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
CON:Astoundingly
EVI:Respect:respect to _K_. This statement is called the _principle of relativity_
EVI:Case:on as a limiting case.
SEQ:Scientific:Philosophical
REL:System:Values
EVI:Words:_w_. How quickly or, in other words, with what velocity _W_ does the
SEQ:Remove:Apparent
CON:Undaunted
EVI:Such:such nor did it seem natural from a theoretical point of view
SEQ:Sides:Square
SEQ:Take:Stand
EVI:Dimensional:three-dimensional “space” of (Euclidean) analytical geometry. If we
EVI:Following:dimensions be supposed available, we may represent it in the following
CON:Iron
EVI:Distance:little rod, which has been used as a “distance” (line-interval). By
EVI:Provide:with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
SEQ:However:Small
SEQ:Insight:Theory
EVI:Power:The great power possessed by the general principle of relativity lies
SEQ:Taken:Basis
SEQ:Observed:Simultaneously
EVI:Strictly:is strictly in agreement with observation.
EVI:Mass:of mass as a law of independent validity.
SEQ:Described:Ordinates
SEQ:Fundamental:Only
EVI:Light:imagine the air above it to have been removed. If a ray of light be
SEQ:Following:Fact
SEQ:Existence:Fact
EVI:Transmission:ray of light possesses the velocity of transmission _c_ relative to the
EVI:Lorentz:this phenomenon was given by H. A. Lorentz long before the statement of
REL:Unable:Give
SEQ:Contained:Conceptions
SEQ:Wish:Charge
EVI:Gutenberg:work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.
SEQ:Easily:Suppose
EVI:Moreover:Moreover, the considerations of Section VI are based on yet a second
EVI:Time:A ray of light requires a perfectly definite time _T_ to pass from one
EVI:Choose:system). As such a system let us again choose our embankment. We shall
SEQ:Finite:Material
EVI:Trajectory:existing trajectory (lit. “path-curve”[6], but only a trajectory
EVI:Them:empirical evidence appertaining to them which has hitherto been
EVI:Plays:forms, in which the time co-ordinate plays exactly the same role as the
SEQ:Enable:Answer
SEQ:Relative:Motion
EVI:Means:by its dark neighbour. By means of similar considerations based on
SEQ:Since:Introduction
SEQ:Requirements:Solicit
SEQ:Instantaneous:Actions
SEQ:Regarded:Results
SEQ:Possible:Describe
CON:Negatively
EVI:Accordance:In accordance with the principle of relativity we shall certainly have
EVI:Point:necessary to take him from the one marked point to the other. Then the
SEQ:Star:Compared
SEQ:Cosmological:Term
SEQ:Clearly:Because
EVI:Reference:(non-rotating) system _K_ as reference-body, since we may only assume
EVI:Then:and _P′_ on the surface then correspond to the co-ordinates
EVI:Considering:present case we can divide the problem into parts by considering first
EVI:Effects:results are obtained in an exceedingly simple manner, and the effects
SEQ:Indicating:Posted
SEQ:Nevertheless:General
EVI:Interpreting:in Section XXI; nor in interpreting the empirical law of the equality
EVI:Stage:Moreover, at this stage the definition of the space co-ordinates also
EVI:Statement:Unlike the first, this latter statement need not of necessity hold _a
EVI:Seconds:is nevertheless 1.7 seconds of arc. This ought to manifest itself in
EVI:Places:different places in such a manner that, if _A_ is simultaneous with
EVI:General:GENERAL POSTULATE OF RELATIVITY
EVI:Increases:amount of energy _E_0, then its inertial mass increases by an amount
EVI:Pole:determine the length of the pole we should have required in order to
SEQ:Phenomena:Should
EVI:Thought:thought. Once in possession of the Lorentz transformation, however, we
SEQ:Seconds:Only
SEQ:Hold:When
EVI:Moving:Expressed in an abstract manner we may say: If a mass _m_ is moving
SEQ:Correctly:Round
CON:Truth
EVI:Rods:rigid rods, but by indirect means. If the results of physics and
CON:Continued
EVI:Discussion:relativity became ripe for discussion, and it did not appear impossible
EVI:Simplest:pains in his endeavour to present the main ideas in the simplest and
SEQ:Certain:Implied
SEQ:Form:Also
SEQ:Note:Carefully
EVI:Simultaneous:are simultaneous _with reference to the railway embankment_ also
EVI:Without:of mechanics in this way, without serious reflection and detailed
EVI:Diagram:indicated in the diagram (Fig. 2), this problem is solved by means of
EVI:Continuum:THE SPACE-TIME CONTINUUM OF THE SPECIAL THEORY OF RELATIVITY CONSIDERED
EVI:Theoretically:electromagnetic phenomena can be theoretically represented much more
EVI:Little:measured with a little rod, by means of the very small number _ds_.
REL:What:Incomparably
SEQ:When:Pole
SEQ:Combine:Principle
SEQ:Length:Being
CON:Value
EVI:Special:PART I: THE SPECIAL THEORY OF RELATIVITY
SEQ:Book:Result
SEQ:Trademark:Copyright
EVI:Motion:(_a_) Motion of the Perihelion of Mercury
CON:Content
SEQ:Perhelion:Next
SEQ:Derived:Theorem
SEQ:Represented:Formula
SEQ:These:Little
EVI:Convincingly:convincingly to the intellect because it is so natural and simple. The
SEQ:Under:These
EVI:Same:the Maxwell-Lorentz theory, which are at the same time arguments in
SEQ:Numerical:Measure
SEQ:Choice:Coordinates
SEQ:Contained:Line
SEQ:Definition:Certainly
EVI:Bodies:position of practically rigid bodies.[1] Geometry which has been
SEQ:Velocity:Latter
EVI:Book:wanderer who was unable to see the forest for the trees. May the book
EVI:Limits:It follows from what has been said, that closed spaces without limits
EVI:Three:about the finite or infinite character of (three-dimensional) space,
SEQ:Question:Only
REL:Rods:Every
EVI:Medium:copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
EVI:Manner:continuum in a definite but arbitrary manner. This arrangement does not
SEQ:Surfaces:Sphere
SEQ:Time:Expanding
CON:Robert
EVI:Rotating:both clocks go at the same rate from the standpoint of the non-rotating
EVI:Time:discussed. The inherited prejudices about time and space did not allow
EVI:Rotating:cannot hold exactly on the rotating disc, nor in general in a
EVI:Distance:distance being measurable and well defined from a physical point of
SEQ:Elapses:Between
EVI:Lead:lead directly to those of the former for the case in which the fields
EVI:Right:1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
SEQ:Here:Also
SEQ:Long:Time
EVI:Translator:Translator: Robert W. Lawson
SEQ:Called:These
EVI:Observer:body.” On the other hand, an observer who is poised freely in space
EVI:United:do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
EVI:Electronic:electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
EVI:System:transition from one Galileian system to another, which is moving
EVI:Straight:uniformly in a straight line with respect to a co-ordinate system _K_,
CON:Vertically
EVI:Subtle:satisfactory manner by making a more subtle stipulation about the
EVI:Propositions:then resolve themselves into propositions on the possible relative
EVI:Body:with respect to the original reference-body _K_. But the observer on
EVI:Degree:clocks has by no means the same degree of plausibility as in the
EVI:Relationship:order to give due prominence to this relationship, however, we must
SEQ:Having:Withheld
CON:Refund
EVI:Theory:the demands of the (special) theory of relativity assume mathematical
SEQ:Hold:Points
SEQ:Here:Railway
EVI:Owing:space with respect to the earth. For owing to the alteration in
SEQ:Alters:Position
EVI:Replace:transformation, we replace the space-time variables _x, y, z, t_, of a
EVI:Complete:a complete place specification. On the basis of this illustration, we
SEQ:Density:Stars
SEQ:Lines:Arcs
EVI:Perpendiculars:perpendiculars can be determined by a series of manipulations with
SEQ:Infinite:Whether
SEQ:Thus:Great
EVI:Instead:(here the length of the pole measured with the measuring-rod) instead
SEQ:Recognise:Must
CON:Fall
SEQ:Order:Attain
SEQ:Rods:Always
SEQ:Circle:Makes
SEQ:Independent:Each
CON:Xxix
SEQ:Answer:Question
EVI:Incompatibility:incompatibility of the law of propagation of light with the principle
SEQ:Distance:Small
EVI:Short:In short, let us assume that the simple law of the constancy of the
SEQ:World:Minkowski
SEQ:Unjustifiable:Hypotheses
REL:Intention:Arrive
SEQ:Relativity:Appears
EVI:Motion:If the motion of the carriage is now changed into a non-uniform motion,
EVI:Moving:the carriage, we introduce a point moving relatively to the co-ordinate
SEQ:Known:When
EVI:Without:we can free ourselves from both of these limitations without altering
CON:Decided
EVI:Position:from the position of the clock on the rotating disc to the centre of
EVI:View:train will with a vantage view the train as a rigid reference-body
EVI:Likewise:where the “gravitational mass” is likewise a characteristic constant
EVI:Small:always possible. It is only possible when sufficiently small regions of
SEQ:Question:Shows
SEQ:Definite:Mathematical
EVI:Mass:of inertial and gravitational mass; but it has also already explained a
EVI:Eclipse:registration of stars during a total eclipse of the sun. The only
REL:Relatively:Each
EVI:Termed:be termed a “reference-mollusc”, is in the main equivalent to a
SEQ:Domain:Under
EVI:Clothes:clothes. Minkowski’s work is doubtless difficult of access to anyone
CON:Presence
CON:Where
EVI:Body:motion to the body attached to it. The tension of the rope is just
SEQ:Particles:Continue
EVI:Ordinates:consideration. These two numbers are then the “Cartesian co-ordinates”
CON:Supposing
SEQ:Train:Also
EVI:Simple:SIMPLE DERIVATION OF THE LORENTZ TRANSFORMATION
EVI:Galileian:judged from the Galileian system, the length of this rod will be less
CON:October
SEQ:Curves:Drawn
EVI:Epitome:space means nothing else than that we imagine an epitome of our “space”
EVI:Holds:which holds most accurately, can be expressed in a different form in
REL:Everything:Really
EVI:Than:that the latter clock goes at a rate permanently slower than that of
SEQ:Lengths:Marble
EVI:Galileian:the law of transmission of light for all Galileian systems of
CON:Standpoint
CON:Trom
EVI:Physically:four-dimensional continuum, are defined physically in a simple manner,
CON:Contended
EVI:Answer:answer must be in the negative.
EVI:Conception:same difficulty with all physical statements in which the conception
CON:Laws
SEQ:Embankment:Find
SEQ:Velocities:Square
EVI:Before:be arbitrary, although it was always tacitly made even before the
CON:Character
CON:Increases
CON:Scattered
EVI:Charge:of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
SEQ:Uniform:Because
EVI:Transmits:take part in the accelerated motion of the chest, and it transmits this
EVI:Line:line with the demands of the special theory of relativity. For the main
SEQ:Admit:Mode
EVI:Position:position, of the pointers of the other clock, then identical “settings”
CON:Foundations
EVI:Value:and a time co-ordinate, the time value _t_. The “world” is in this
SEQ:Forth:Section
SEQ:Share:Without
EVI:Represent:dimensions be supposed available, we may represent it in the following
REL:Transcription:Text
SEQ:Thus:Fictitious
EVI:Gravitation:the right when he believes that a general law of gravitation can be
SEQ:Found:Calculation
CON:Invariable
CON:Attention
SEQ:Thence:Determined
SEQ:Gutenberg:Volunteers
CON:Pursuance
SEQ:Embankment:Ordinate
EVI:Project:full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.
SEQ:Addition:Terms
EVI:Fact:Nevertheless we must now draw attention to the fact that a theory of
SEQ:Distribute:Copies
SEQ:Copyright:Other
SEQ:Depends:Velocity
REL:Diminution:Gravitational
SEQ:Accordance:Paragraph
EVI:Earth:relative to the surface of the earth by erecting a pole perpendicularly
EVI:Moment:field itself. Let us consider this for a moment.
SEQ:Finds:Justification
SEQ:Often:Laid
SEQ:Body:Previously
EVI:Spherical:on a spherical surface instead of on a plane. The flat beings with
SEQ:Therefore:Always
EVI:Portion:considerable portion of the surface of the table.
EVI:Loses:line also loses its meaning. We are therefore not in a position to
EVI:Expand:“expand” by in amount proportional to the increase of temperature. We
SEQ:Latter:More
EVI:Deflection:existence of the deflection of light demanded by theory was first
SEQ:Maximum:Value
SEQ:Receive:Acceleration
SEQ:Universe:Plane
EVI:Judged:the same occurrence as judged from the embankment (as reference-body).
EVI:Riemann:with experience (Riemann, Helmholtz). These questions have already been
SEQ:Demand:Made
SEQ:Remain:Unchanged
REL:Velocity:About
SEQ:Reality:Neither
EVI:Empty:the iron through the intermediate empty space, but we are constrained
EVI:Marble:the marble slab constitute a Euclidean continuum with respect to the
SEQ:Jerk:Forwards
EVI:Colour:colour of the light reaching us from them. The latter effect manifests
CON:Quotient
SEQ:Distance:Points
EVI:Form:shall imagine _K′_ to be in the form of a plane circular disc, which
SEQ:Definitions:Signification
CON:Xviii
CON:Electricity
CON:Sections
CON:Acceleration
CON:Astronomy
EVI:Principle:physics which is conformable to the general principle of relativity,
EVI:Physics:There is hardly a simpler law in physics than that according to which
SEQ:United:States
SEQ:Instead:Body
EVI:Expression:_t_ from the equations (5), taking into account the expression (6), we
EVI:Imagine:magnitude of our sun. We might imagine that, as regards geometry, our
EVI:Theory:XXVI. The Space-Time Continuum of the Special Theory of Relativity Considered as a Euclidean Continuum
CON:Strokes
EVI:Certain:accordance with the special theory of relativity, certain co-ordinate
EVI:Space:about the finite or infinite character of (three-dimensional) space,
SEQ:Above:Should
SEQ:Finally:Together
CON:Modern
REL:Difficult:Understand
SEQ:Places:Reference
EVI:Events:Those space-time points (events) which satisfy (1) must also satisfy
EVI:Table:considerable portion of the surface of the table.
SEQ:Step:Towards
EVI:Fields:propagated curvilinearly in gravitational fields._ In two respects this
SEQ:These:Planes
EVI:Printed:Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
EVI:Forth:are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
EVI:Still:which case two of our little rods can still be brought into coincidence
SEQ:Distant:Each
CON:Plunged
EVI:Energy:of the body, the required energy of the body comes out to be
SEQ:Theories:What
SEQ:World:Physical
CON:Until
EVI:Towards:(directed towards the negative _x_-axis) of a point of _K_ with respect
EVI:Also:one direction in the form which also results from the hypotheses of
EVI:Rays:_K′_). From this we conclude, _that, in general, rays of light are
SEQ:Matter:Domain
EVI:Demand:defined is fulfilled. That my definition satisfies this demand is
CON:Limit
EVI:Fixed:train. An event, wherever it may have taken place, would be fixed in
EVI:Results:theory of relativity must yield important results on the laws of
SEQ:Universe:Differs
SEQ:However:Following
EVI:Bodies:“rigid” bodies. In this sense we _can_ imagine a spherical space.
CON:Careful
SEQ:Amount:Ensured
SEQ:Piece:Universe
EVI:Property:exhibits a most remarkable property, which is of fundamental importance
SEQ:Effect:Explained
EVI:Without:satisfactorily than without it, and this applies particularly to the
SEQ:Standing:Chest
EVI:Efforts:exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
CON:Corresponding
EVI:Geometry:concept “true” does not tally with the assertions of pure geometry,
SEQ:Limited:Incomplete
EVI:Principle:VII. The Apparent Incompatability of the Law of Propagation of Light with the Principle of Relativity
EVI:Course:accelerated motion. In course of time their velocity will reach
SEQ:Other:Finally
SEQ:Purely:Theoretical
EVI:Elect:with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
SEQ:Then:Relative
EVI:Wish:In contrast to this we wish to understand by the “general principle of
SEQ:Magnitude:Should
SEQ:Than:Encounters
SEQ:Satisfied:Those
EVI:Regarded:of Galilei-Newton can be regarded as valid only for a Galileian system
EVI:Material:so close together as to give continuity; corresponding to the material
EVI:Distance:required distance.
CON:Always
EVI:Though:way. Even though by no means all gravitationial fields can be produced
EVI:Disregarding:throwing it. Then, disregarding the influence of the air resistance, I
SEQ:Surface:Ultimately
EVI:Motion:the velocity of motion of the body emitting the light. The assumption
EVI:Respect:Relative to _K′, the same event_ would be fixed in respect of space and
EVI:Seconds:orbital ellipse was 43 seconds of arc per century, an amount ensured to
EVI:Without:of our space without coming into conflict with the laws of thought or
SEQ:Undaunted:First
CON:Sensible
EVI:Gutenberg:Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
SEQ:Hundredth:Carriage
EVI:Analyse:life. If I analyse the place specification “Trafalgar Square,
EVI:Known:it has long been known that the last question is not only unanswerable
EVI:Length:circle, _i.e._ a self-contained line of definite finite length, which
EVI:Rods:measuring-rods and clocks is influenced by gravitational fields, _i.e._
EVI:Gravitational:gravitational field exists relative to a reference-body _K_ whose state
SEQ:Same:Role
SEQ:International:Donations
EVI:General:no avail in the general theory of relativity. The motion of clocks is
SEQ:True:Then
EVI:Lorentz:We can characterise the Lorentz transformation still more simply if we
SEQ:Word:Space
SEQ:About:Encounters
SEQ:Agree:Have
SEQ:Possesses:Velocity
EVI:Question:In practice, the question is tested in the following way. The stars in
SEQ:Points:Only
EVI:System:judged from the Galileian system, the length of this rod will be less
EVI:Itself:introduction of an auxiliary hypothesis, which in itself—_i.e._ without
SEQ:Updated:Editions
EVI:Definitely:displacement of spectral lines be definitely traced to the
EVI:Gutenberg:Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
EVI:Theorem:XIII. Theorem of the Addition of Velocities. The Experiment of Fizeau
SEQ:These:Frameworks
EVI:Throughout:is constant throughout the universe, then a sphere of volume _V_ will
CON:Terrestrial
SEQ:Above:Comparison
EVI:Hence:an additional distance w relative to the carriage, and hence also
SEQ:Without:Introducing
EVI:Theory:XXI. In What Respects are the Foundations of Classical Mechanics and of the Special Theory of Relativity Unsatisfactory?
EVI:Without:be obtained without caprice, however, by taking into consideration the
SEQ:Remedy:Defect
EVI:Short:such that the sum of the distances _AB_ and _BC_ is as short as
EVI:Violates:violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
SEQ:Distance:Unit
EVI:Rays:It is known that cathode rays and the so-called β-rays emitted by
EVI:Physical:_x_4 (co-ordinates), which have not the least direct physical
EVI:Chest:From our consideration of the accelerated chest we see that a general
SEQ:Universe:Observation
EVI:Absolutely:system “absolutely at rest,” and all other Galileian systems _K_ “in
CON:Attractive
SEQ:Riding:Ahead
SEQ:Expeditions:Equipped
EVI:Lorentz:investigations of H. A. Lorentz on the electrodynamical and optical
EVI:Became:became evident that _in reality there is not the least incompatibilitiy
SEQ:Very:Small
SEQ:Fact:Lines
SEQ:Hears:Four
EVI:Example:For example, we learn that a body which is in a state of uniform
CON:Especially
SEQ:Motion:Fall
EVI:Publisher:Publisher: Methuen & Co Ltd
SEQ:Time:Sole
EVI:System:space-time variables _x, y, z, t_ of the original coordinate system
EVI:Least:condition, then at least one of the two fundamental assumptions of the
EVI:Lines:enclose the average mass ρ0_V_. Thus the number of lines of force
EVI:Radius:radius until the “circumference of the universe” is reached, and that
EVI:Especially:license, especially commercial redistribution.
CON:Condition
SEQ:Course:Natural
SEQ:Cannot:Pursue
EVI:Nature:in the comprehensive limitation which is imposed on the laws of nature
SEQ:Number:These
SEQ:After:Corrected
SEQ:Section:Again
SEQ:Earth:Moves
EVI:Undoubtedly:last are undoubtedly the exclusive cause of the genesis of those ideas.
EVI:Ordinate:description. The Gauss co-ordinate system has to take the place of the
REL:Field:Gravitation
EVI:Body:seen from a reference-body _K′_ which is accelerated relatively to _K_.
EVI:Natural:system devoid of rotation, then natural phenomena run their course with
SEQ:Relatively:Ordinate
EVI:Calculation:calculation indicate that if matter be distributed uniformly, the
EVI:Simultaneous:at the same time, then they are simultaneous.
EVI:Experiments:The observer performs experiments on his circular disc with clocks and
EVI:Apply:of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
EVI:Fixed:Relative to _K′, the same event_ would be fixed in respect of space and
SEQ:License:Very
EVI:Formulated:formulated in a law, which is always valid, no matter how the
SEQ:Continuum:Defined
SEQ:Clearness:What
SEQ:Already:Fitted
EVI:Xxxii:XXXII. The Structure of Space According to the General Theory of Relativity
SEQ:Certainly:Regard
SEQ:Empirical:Physical
EVI:Shall:themselves evident in practice. We shall not consider the motion of
SEQ:Results:Latter
SEQ:Energy:Should
EVI:Perhaps:perhaps this feeling of proud certainty would leave you immediately if
SEQ:Opposite:Opinion
EVI:Least:not in the least diminish the conclusiveness of the experiment as a
EVI:Factor:prime factor involved in this contraction we find, not the motion in
EVI:Infinite:surface would ultimately become infinite with increasing radius _R_ of
EVI:Harmony:This view is not in harmony with the theory of Newton. The latter
EVI:Body:body._ For instance, a piece of lead and a piece of wood fall in
SEQ:Slab:Other
EVI:These:consideration. These two numbers are then the “Cartesian co-ordinates”
EVI:Field:gravitational field exists relative to a reference-body _K_ whose state
EVI:Does:general theory of relativity, this does not disturb him; he is quite in
SEQ:Zero:Still
SEQ:Proportional:Unit
EVI:Values:system of co-ordinate values, _x_1, _x_2, _x_3, _x_4, in common. After
EVI:General:seen that the general theory of relativity enables us to derive
SEQ:Quantitatively:Clock
CON:Evident
EVI:Other:is the index of refraction of the liquid. On the other hand, owing to
EVI:Then:propositions, then at a later stage (in the general theory of
EVI:Neighbouring:continuously from one point to a “neighbouring” one, and repeating this
SEQ:Field:Situated
SEQ:View:Interested
SEQ:Mechanics:Used
EVI:Have:the velocity _v_ = _c_ we should have
EVI:Comes:field of giving all bodies the same acceleration, or, what comes to the
CON:Characteristic
EVI:Have:We have another instance of far-reaching agreement between the
EVI:Second:treated in the second part of this book.
SEQ:Accuracy:Domain
EVI:Emitted:Hence the observer will see the beam of light emitted from _B_ earlier
EVI:Measure:absolute angular measure customary in physics, and the above expression
EVI:Originated:connection in which they actually originated. In the interest of
EVI:System:called a “Galileian system of co-ordinates.” The laws of the mechanics
SEQ:Time:Every
SEQ:These:Electrons
EVI:Differences:(indefinitely small differences).
EVI:Claim:frequently referred, cannot claim any unlimited validity. A curvature
EVI:Mentioned:mentioned is flowing through the tube with a velocity _v_?
EVI:Deviations:calculation, deviations from the theory of Newton make their
SEQ:Same:Rate
SEQ:Standard:Measure
EVI:General:general law of nature were to be found which did not satisfy this
SEQ:Paper:Freundlich
SEQ:Concerned:Following
CON:Axes
SEQ:Virtue:Theory
SEQ:Maintain:Constancy
CON:Payments
CON:Really
EVI:Classical:We have already stated several times that classical mechanics starts
EVI:Magnitude:replace the usual time co-ordinate t by an imaginary magnitude
SEQ:Itself:According
EVI:Terrestrially:produced in an analogous manner terrestrially (_i.e._ by the same kind
CON:Need
SEQ:Movement:Bodies
EVI:Geometry:down by Euclidean geometry.
EVI:Compilation:some resemblance to the compilation of a classified catalogue. It is,
SEQ:Planes:Although
EVI:More:theory of relativity the method of interpretation is incomparably more
SEQ:Assume:Truth
EVI:Other:other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
EVI:Prime:any doubt to arise as to the prime importance of the Galileian
EVI:Justification:the basis of a logical process, the justification of which we feel
EVI:Faced:In the theoretical treatment of these electrons, we are faced with the
EVI:Exact:EXACT FORMULATION OF THE GENERAL PRINCIPLE OF RELATIVITY
SEQ:When:Instead
EVI:Examination:examination of the correctness or otherwise of this deduction is a
SEQ:Work:Physical
EVI:Astronomers:astronomers (Eddington, Cottingham, Crommelin, Davidson), in order to
EVI:Each:perpendicular to each other marked out, and designated as “co-ordinate
EVI:Actual:supplies us with the actual motions of the heavenly bodies with a
SEQ:Respect:Three
SEQ:More:Abstract
EVI:Ceiling:will cause him to rise slowly towards the ceiling of the room.
EVI:Constructions:constructions to be made with rigid rods _in the surface_ (similar to
EVI:Then:supplemented in this way is then to be treated as a branch of physics.
EVI:Motion:ellipse rotates round the sun in the same sense as the orbital motion
SEQ:Mechanics:Hand
EVI:Must:exactly to the three space co-ordinates in Euclidean geometry. It must
CON:Discarded
EVI:Diagram:predicted effect can be seen clearly from the accompanying diagram. If
SEQ:Zeal:Towards
EVI:Derivation:derivation of laws, and—what is incomparably more important—it has
EVI:Point:from any one point on this table to any other point by passing
SEQ:Should:Amount
CON:Apparently
EVI:Also:domains to _non-Galileian_ reference-bodies also. A gravitational field
SEQ:Appear:Though
EVI:View:such nor did it seem natural from a theoretical point of view
SEQ:Consideration:Galileian
CON:Seeing
EVI:When:also applicable to non-Euclidean continua, but only when, with respect
EVI:Faraday:Faraday-Maxwell interpretation of electromagnetic action at a distance
EVI:Constant:density of matter to be constant everywhere, even to infinity, without
SEQ:Whole:Marble
EVI:Have:We should thus have the solution of our problem, if the constants _a_
SEQ:Exactness:Corresponding
EVI:Literary:Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
EVI:Universe:the spherical universe. Our experience is far from being sufficient to
EVI:Approach:approach us with offers to donate.
SEQ:Possess:Velocity
SEQ:Always:Remain
EVI:Measuring:behaviour of measuring-rods and clocks and also of freely-moving
CON:Exists
EVI:Suppose:to a second Galileian system we shall suppose that the corresponding
CON:Follow
EVI:Implements:Flat beings with flat implements, and in particular flat rigid
EVI:Space:“world” in a formal manner as a four-dimensional Euclidean space (with
EVI:Surrounding:since calculations show that the metrics of surrounding space is
EVI:Call:something being what we call a “magnetic field.” In its turn this
EVI:Travels:Hence it cannot be contended that the man in walking travels the
EVI:Indicated:For the relative orientation of the co-ordinate systems indicated in
SEQ:Continuously:Point
SEQ:Rods:Cannot
EVI:Conflict:We were led to that conflict by the considerations of Section VI, which
EVI:Pointed:geometrical relationships in the surface, and thus pointed out the way
EVI:Exactly:exactly. I shall prepare the reader for this in the following
EVI:Purpose:purpose we suppose that clocks of identical construction are placed at
SEQ:First:Discussed
SEQ:Then:Disregarding
EVI:Follows:for what follows. Bodies which are moving under the sole influence of a
CON:Mathematics
EVI:Lorentz:thought. Once in possession of the Lorentz transformation, however, we
SEQ:Replaced:Later
EVI:Knowledge:to the best of my knowledge, was first discussed in detail by the
EVI:Space:reality, the description of the time-space continuum by means of Gauss
EVI:Empirical:of which will hardly be doubted without empirical evidence to the
EVI:Same:fixed stars of approrimately the same kind and density.
CON:Trademark
SEQ:Rails:Connecting
EVI:Consequence:In order that equation (10_a_) may be a consequence of equation (10),
EVI:Square:squares. The arrangement is such, that each side of a square belongs to
EVI:Gravitational:Now we might easily suppose that the existence of a gravitational field
SEQ:Certain:Considerations
EVI:Independent:of treating time as an independent continuum. As a matter of fact,
EVI:Railway:respect to the body of reference[7] (here the railway embankment). We
EVI:Standing:I am standing in front of a gas range. Standing alongside of each other
EVI:Demonstrate:nor any experiment with which to demonstrate it. Here the contraction
SEQ:Obtained:Without
SEQ:Earth:Owing
SEQ:Should:Direction
SEQ:Powerful:Application
SEQ:Plane:Observe
SEQ:These:Displacements
SEQ:Natural:Exist
SEQ:Lengths:These
EVI:Gutenberg:all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
SEQ:Angular:Measure
SEQ:Only:Knew
SEQ:Whilst:Riding
EVI:Lines:diminishes to zero. At first, the straight lines which radiate from the
EVI:Existence:existence in the fact that it correlates a large number of single
EVI:Ought:problem”) has had an important development, which ought to be mentioned
EVI:Between:capable of being tested, the agreement between the theories may be so
SEQ:Following:Table
SEQ:Flat:Beings
SEQ:General:Gravitational
EVI:System:motion.” If, for instance, our embankment were the system _K0_ then our
EVI:Transformation:an imaginary time coordinate); the Lorentz transformation corresponds
EVI:Empirical:of arc per century. The uncertainty of the empirical result amounts to
SEQ:Moment:Enter
SEQ:Remedies:Negligence
SEQ:Relativity:General
EVI:Short:induction. Theories are evolved and are expressed in short compass as
SEQ:Points:View
EVI:Exists:gravitational field exists for the man in the chest, despite the fact
EVI:Relatively:together with the mirrors, be moving relatively to the æther. And yet
SEQ:Important:Hitherto
EVI:Error:error, we can disregard the fact that in reality these frameworks would
EVI:Bodies:nature” can be said to hold, and reference-bodies _K_ relative to which
EVI:Acceleration:gravitational field receive an acceleration, _which does not in the
EVI:Time:embankment _in each second_ of time. But, according to the foregoing
CON:Transcribe
CON:Explains
EVI:Convinced:farther until he is fully convinced on this point.)
EVI:Special:special theory of relativity hold relative to _K_. Let us suppose the
SEQ:Clock:Relative
EVI:Reference:indeed every other process) to a rigid reference-body (co-ordinate
EVI:Measuring:THE BEHAVIOUR OF MEASURING-RODS AND CLOCKS IN MOTION
SEQ:Ripe:Discussion
SEQ:Suppose:Draw
EVI:Relativity:contintium—accordance with the special theory of relativity—as a
SEQ:Velocities:Small
SEQ:Another:Position
CON:Emancipation
EVI:Farther:starting point diverge farther and farther from one another, but later
SEQ:Middle:Chest
SEQ:Explains:Motion
EVI:Transformation:on the Galileian transformation we should not have obtained a
EVI:Because:statement, because they mean that they can perform the constructions of
EVI:Points:(2) The space-interval (distance) between two points of a rigid body is
CON:Discussion
EVI:Worldsphere:(“world”), even when only a relatively small part of their worldsphere
EVI:Euclidean:XXVI. The Space-Time Continuum of the Special Theory of Relativity Considered as a Euclidean Continuum
SEQ:Millionths:Wave
SEQ:Circle:Plane
EVI:Insert:minimum. If instead of Newton’s law we insert a somewhat different law
SEQ:John:Have
EVI:System:to a “rotation” of the co-ordinate system in the four-dimensional
EVI:Attached:middle of the lid of the chest and the rope which is attached to it,
EVI:Requires:indisputable. That light requires the same time to traverse the path
SEQ:First:Thus
SEQ:Mechanics:Lorentz
SEQ:Together:Give
EVI:Hours:bring some one a few happy hours of suggestive thought!
EVI:Embankment:motion.” If, for instance, our embankment were the system _K0_ then our
EVI:Lorentz:equations of the same form when, by making use of the Lorentz
EVI:Form:law of the propagation of light _in vacuo_) have exactly the same form
EVI:Mass:where the “gravitational mass” is likewise a characteristic constant
SEQ:Child:School
SEQ:Those:Readers
SEQ:Geometrical:Relationships
EVI:Satisfied:of light _in vacuo_ is satisfied both for the reference-body _K_ and
EVI:Astronomers:present time (1920) astronomers are working with great zeal towards the
SEQ:Time:Values
EVI:Owns:Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
EVI:Other:On the other hand, all coordinate systems _K′_ moving relatively to _K_
CON:Purpose
SEQ:Points:Neighbourhood
SEQ:Quasi:Euclidean
EVI:Emission:this were not the case, the minimum of emission would not be observed
SEQ:Then:Following
EVI:Field:THE GRAVITATIONAL FIELD
EVI:Easily:have σ = 1. It is easily seen that the Lorentz transformation really
SEQ:Surface:Irregularly
CON:Words
EVI:Relativity:favour of the theory of relativity, are too numerous to be set forth
CON:Provisions
SEQ:Second:Ordinate
EVI:According:respect to _K′_ according to exactly the same general laws as with
EVI:Name:London” is a well-defined point, to which a name has been assigned, and
EVI:Order:order to see how the points of the _x′_-axis appear as viewed from _K_,
SEQ:Educational:Corporation
EVI:Already:already mentioned, this is self-evident, but it must not be confused
REL:According:Newton
EVI:Official:version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
SEQ:Part:Special
EVI:Described:momentary existence without duration, then it would to described in
SEQ:Same:Value
CON:Influences
SEQ:Surface:Euclidean
EVI:Space:space it would be infinite. But calculation shows that in a
EVI:Relative:the velocity _c_, the propagation relative to the system _K′_ will be
EVI:Clocks:XII. The Behaviour of Measuring-Rods and Clocks in Motion
EVI:Chest:with respect to the accelerated reference-body _K′_ (chest). This
EVI:Assuming:Now assuming that the Maxwell-Lorentz equations hold for a
EVI:Section:obvious consideration of Section VI. Namely, if the man in the carriage
EVI:Space:is variable with respect to space and time.[17] The character of this
EVI:Xxvii:XXVII. The Space-Time Continuum of the General Theory of Relativity is Not a Euclidean Continuum
EVI:Foot:specification of the position of the foot of the pole, supplies us with
EVI:Manner:formulated in a particularly simple manner, and of course only on
EVI:Little:which case two of our little rods can still be brought into coincidence
EVI:Donations:DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state
SEQ:Dilemma:Seeliger
EVI:Motion:independent of the position and the condition of motion of the system
EVI:Reality:_A_ → _M_ as for the path _B_ → _M_ is in reality neither a
SEQ:Body:Construct
CON:Works
SEQ:Events:Terms
SEQ:Describes:Circle
SEQ:Part:Difficulty
CON:Live
SEQ:Cloud:Different
EVI:Sins:explanations. Let us proceed to disclose these sins.
EVI:Reference:section. If instead of “body of reference” we insert “system of
SEQ:Lies:Recognition
CON:Dials
EVI:State:numbers. I only need state how many rods I must pass over when,
EVI:Such:Gaussian co-ordinates, every such statement is expressed by the
SEQ:Available:File
EVI:Experience:might also interpret his experience thus: “My body of reference (the
EVI:Laws:laws would hold than with respect to _K0_. This diminished simplicity
EVI:Time:XXVII. The Space-Time Continuum of the General Theory of Relativity is Not a Euclidean Continuum
EVI:Following:following pages, would perhaps have got no farther than its long
SEQ:Possible:Already
SEQ:Being:Passed
EVI:Chest:of the chest will be transmitted to him by the reaction of the floor of
EVI:Away:Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may
EVI:Contrast:relative to every “Galileian” system of co-ordinates. In contrast to
EVI:About:matter. Thus we can draw conclusions about the geometrical structure of
EVI:Reference:the same occurrence as judged from the embankment (as reference-body).
EVI:Relativity:IV. The Structure of Space According to the General Theory of Relativity (supplementary to section XXXII)
EVI:Lengths:both lengths being measured with the same rod, is, according to
CON:Noted
EVI:Second:or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
EVI:Mutual:would necessarily be scattered under the influence of their mutual
SEQ:Volume:Surface
EVI:Between:that the relations of the Galileian transformation exist between the
EVI:When:identical construction will go at different rates when situated at
EVI:Increase:the distance between them. If we increase the accuracy of the
SEQ:Source:Relativity
EVI:Relativity:Before the theory of relativity was put forward, it was difficult to
SEQ:Planet:Exceeds
EVI:Case:case in which the points of the surface considered form a Euclidean
CON:Established
EVI:Millimetre:hundredths of a millimetre only. Thus great accuracy was necessary in
EVI:Moving:etc., which are moving uniformly relative to each other, will not be
EVI:Terms:Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
SEQ:Body:Takes
EVI:Connection:the special theory of relativity. In this connection we proceed in
EVI:Directly:simultaneous _relatively to the train?_ We shall show directly that the
SEQ:Easily:Derived
SEQ:Agreement:Disclaim
EVI:Heuristic:valuable heuristic aid in the search for general laws of nature. If a
EVI:Euclidean:slab is no longer a Euclidean continuum, and we are also no longer in
EVI:Infinite:their universe there is room for an infinite number of identical
SEQ:Belongs:Euclidean
SEQ:Determines:Position
SEQ:Thinking:Matter
EVI:Should:one perhelion and the next should exceed that corresponding to one
SEQ:Mississippi:Granted
SEQ:Here:Truth
SEQ:Foundation:Owner
EVI:Widest:electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
EVI:Edition:Since the publication of the first edition of this little book, our
CON:Learn
EVI:Britain:Principe (West Africa)—and sent several of Britain’s most celebrated
CON:Wait
SEQ:Corresponding:Angle
SEQ:When:Describing
EVI:Geometry:Geometry sets out from certain conceptions such as “plane,” “point,”
SEQ:Axis:Thus
SEQ:Attention:Fact
EVI:Describes:(embankment) it describes a parabola. With the aid of this example it
SEQ:Have:Alluded
SEQ:Person:Received
SEQ:Star:Photographs
SEQ:Originator:Project
SEQ:Light:Varies
EVI:Difficulties:getting into the greatest difficulties. We only need to think of the
SEQ:Rest:Means
REL:Lines:Light
EVI:Relativity:THE HEURISTIC VALUE OF THE THEORY OF RELATIVITY
SEQ:Manner:What
EVI:Corner:“upwards,” in order to arrive at the corner of the square under
EVI:Surface:sphere rather than on another closed surface. But this choice has its
EVI:Hypothesis:This stipulation contains a further physical hypothesis, the validity
SEQ:Euclidean:Geometrical
EVI:Must:will interpret the condition of things thus: “The rope must perforce
SEQ:Following:Method
EVI:Theory:the theory of relativity, since according to this theory time is robbed
SEQ:Body:Approach
SEQ:Other:Does
EVI:Consideration:mature consideration the reader will doubtless admit that in reality
SEQ:Plane:Flat
EVI:Misconception:against a misconception suggested by these considerations. A
CON:Clothes
SEQ:Another:Shall
SEQ:Corresponding:Formula
EVI:Transcription:Transcription/Markup: Brian Basgen
CON:Curvilinear
EVI:Necessarily:the universe will be quasi-spherical. But it will be necessarily
EVI:Truth:Of course the conviction of the “truth” of geometrical propositions in
EVI:Temptation:the temptation to venture the step towards the general principle of
EVI:Refrangible:Mean displacements of lines towards the less refrangible end of the
SEQ:Start:Project
EVI:Discuss:strives to move towards the magnet. We shall not discuss here the
SEQ:Only:Galileian
EVI:Hand:On the other hand, all coordinate systems _K′_ moving relatively to _K_
EVI:Principle:_mechanics_. But that a principle of such broad generality should hold
SEQ:Result:Reasons
EVI:Assigned:London” is a well-defined point, to which a name has been assigned, and
EVI:Ideas:present the fundamental ideas of the special theory of relativity.
EVI:Charities:charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
EVI:Maintain:the table, it is possible quite naturally to maintain the point of view
SEQ:Moving:Here
EVI:Body:in a “Galileian” fashion under suitable choice of reference-body,
EVI:Nothing:nevertheless, because in reality it assumes absolutely nothing about
CON:Doppler
EVI:About:discussed. The inherited prejudices about time and space did not allow
SEQ:Gross:Profits
EVI:Stars:positions of the stars on the eclipse-photograph ought to appear
SEQ:Wherever:Have
EVI:System:relative to a system of co-ordinates rigidly attached to the ground
EVI:Fact:fact that no empirical data had been found which were contradictory to
CON:Tailor
EVI:Guided:experience. Guided by purely formal points of view, H. A. Lorentz was
CON:Dense
SEQ:Refund:Discover
EVI:Theory:demands of a natural law, and in virtue of this, the theory becomes a
EVI:Trees:wanderer who was unable to see the forest for the trees. May the book
CON:Copying
SEQ:Position:Should
REL:Used:Produce
SEQ:Able:Learn
EVI:Reality:of relativity would be laid in the dust. But in reality this is not the
EVI:Situated:sun that the stars situated near the sun’s disc are invisible. The
SEQ:Formula:Holds
CON:Numerical
CON:Entered
SEQ:Known:Mechanical
EVI:Section:Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
SEQ:Condition:Motion
EVI:Does:How quickly does it travel in the direction of the arrow in the tube
SEQ:Possible:Case
SEQ:Spectrum:Certainly
SEQ:Field:When
CON:Alongside
REL:Shortening:Length
CON:Grows
EVI:Instead:Instead of the equation (A) we then obtain the equation
SEQ:Theoretical:Foundation
EVI:Prevails:relative to _K_ (relative to _K′_ a gravitational field prevails).
SEQ:Minkowski:Four
REL:Freewill:Order
EVI:More:out that this formulation must be replaced later by a more abstract
EVI:Available:dimensions be supposed available, we may represent it in the following
SEQ:Upwards:Order
SEQ:Serve:Purpose
EVI:Time:covers the distance _w_ in a unit of time—_measured from the
EVI:Valid:30 kilometres per second. If the principle of relativity were not valid
SEQ:Give:Continuity
CON:Defects
EVI:Mean:Mean displacements of lines towards the less refrangible end of the
EVI:Takes:referred. The resulting relationship takes for granted that the laws of
CON:Corresponds
CON:Disagreement
EVI:Pole:relative to the surface of the earth by erecting a pole perpendicularly
EVI:Section:its inertial mass, and thus according to Section XV only its energy is
SEQ:Change:Outside
EVI:Information:Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
SEQ:Ordinates:Neighbouring
EVI:Hook:To the middle of the lid of the chest is fixed externally a hook with
EVI:Entitled:entitled “Zur Prüfung der allgemeinen Relativitäts-Theorie” (_Die
CON:Govern
EVI:Slight:itself in a slight displacement of the spectral lines of the light
SEQ:Pans:Much
SEQ:Irregular:Serve
SEQ:Attempts:Detect
EVI:Same:the same mechanical laws hold relatively to the non-uniformly moving
EVI:Agreement:are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
EVI:Ordinates:choose, the co-ordinates _x1, y1, z1, t1_ of which differ by an
SEQ:Suspended:Body
EVI:Then:with his measuring-rod and then the diameter of the disc, on dividing
EVI:Under:TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
EVI:Assertions:concept “true” does not tally with the assertions of pure geometry,
EVI:Sphere:To this two-dimensional sphere-universe there is a three-dimensional
EVI:Photograph:earlier or later. As compared with the standard photograph, the
EVI:Only:postulate of relativity excels not only in its beauty; nor in removing
EVI:Whole:most intelligible form, and on the whole, in the sequence and
EVI:Times:co-ordinates and times of events have not been defined, we cannot
EVI:Against:unit of mass against the centrifugal force in order to transport it
EVI:Distance:manner that, in the course of a planet-year, the distance sun-planet
SEQ:Consider:Motion
EVI:According:system of stars in the large—as required, according to Friedman, by the
SEQ:Every:Other
EVI:Natural:such nor did it seem natural from a theoretical point of view
SEQ:First:Answer
EVI:Relation:(2). Obviously this will be the case when the relation
EVI:Copyright:copyright restrictions so cannot be added without the permission of the
EVI:Determine:the spherical beings can determine the radius of their universe
SEQ:Complicated:Laws
EVI:Nature:(formulation of the general laws of nature), whatever may be their
CON:Components
EVI:Deceived:deceived as a physicist (and of course the same applies if I am not a
EVI:Propagation:law of the propagation of light _in vacuo_ may be compatible with the
SEQ:Then:Study
EVI:Applied:from _K_, if it is applied to the disc in the direction of the radius.
EVI:Corresponds:which corresponds to the theorem of addition for velocities in one
CON:Operation
SEQ:When:Relation
EVI:Platz:the “Potzdammer Platz, Berlin,” which is referred to in the original.
SEQ:These:Views
EVI:Position:indicated, we are also in a position to establish the distance between
EVI:Lines:travelling along the railway lines with the velocity _v_, and that its
SEQ:Equal:Same
EVI:Mechanics:in mechanics, which can be used in mechanical description. The visible
EVI:Radius:radius of the disc) tangentially to the edge of the disc, then, as
SEQ:Such:Statement
SEQ:Venus:Orbit
SEQ:Matter:Thus
EVI:Principle:In accordance with the principle of relativity we shall certainly have
CON:Year
EVI:Space:into being something physically real in the space around it, that
SEQ:Does:Differ
SEQ:Independent:Existence
SEQ:Further:When
EVI:Euclidean:is Euclidean, then _F_ = 4π_r_2; if it is spherical, then _F_ is always
EVI:Fashion:in a “Galileian” fashion under suitable choice of reference-body,
CON:Party
EVI:Saying:express this by saying that by the “truth” of a geometrical proposition
EVI:Exclusively:this sense is founded exclusively on rather incomplete experience. For
EVI:Exactness:exactness corresponding to that of the delicacy of observation
EVI:Nature:them, the nature of which has hitherto remained obscure to us.[13] If
EVI:Arranged:definition of time with the aid of clocks which are arranged at rest
SEQ:Theory:Lies
SEQ:Moving:Velocity
EVI:Events:space involves the use of a rigid body to which such events have to be
CON:Shuddering
EVI:Propagation:It is required by the law of propagation of light, in conjunction with
EVI:Transformation:transformation, we replace the space-time variables _x, y, z, t_, of a
EVI:Project:performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
EVI:Energy:In consideration of the expression given above for the kinetic energy
SEQ:Space:Based
SEQ:Strictly:Correct
SEQ:Something:Nature
REL:Type:Newton
EVI:Lattice:carried out by means of the rods _e.g._ the lattice construction,
SEQ:These:Premises
SEQ:Determined:Longer
EVI:Attention:Nevertheless we must now draw attention to the fact that a theory of
SEQ:Disc:Direction
SEQ:Used:Produce
SEQ:Measures:Circumference
SEQ:Under:Consideration
EVI:Imagine:solid bodies. In every such framework we imagine three surfaces
EVI:Gravitational:THE EQUALITY OF INERTIAL AND GRAVITATIONAL MASS AS AN ARGUMENT FOR THE
EVI:Known:material point of mass _m_ is no longer given by the well-known
SEQ:Following:Result
SEQ:Vacuum:Justifiably
CON:Theoretically
EVI:Unsolicited:against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
SEQ:Undoubtedly:Exclusive
EVI:Theory:the theory, but who are not conversant with the mathematical apparatus
EVI:Explanation:explanation; of course it would require some consideration if I were to
SEQ:Waves:Effects
EVI:Dimensional:Gaussian four-dimensional co-ordinate system chosen arbitrarily. That
SEQ:Gravitation:Ready
EVI:Individual:1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
SEQ:Instantaneous:Action
CON:Understand
CON:Present
SEQ:Definite:Ideas
EVI:Place:The action of the earth on the stone takes place indirectly. The earth
SEQ:Domain:Validity
EVI:Indicated:Gauss indicated the principles according to which we can treat the
EVI:Stars:fixed stars. This deduction, which can be tested with great accuracy,
SEQ:Supposed:Available
EVI:Saying:and to the co-ordinate system. Should we be justified in saying that
EVI:Starting:provided they do not use too small a piece of it. Starting from a
EVI:View:general scientific and philosophical point of view, are interested in
CON:Escape
EVI:Relative:an additional distance w relative to the carriage, and hence also
EVI:Case:continuum with reference to the measuring-rods, but only in this case,
CON:Involving
CON:Clock
SEQ:Logical:Rest
EVI:Simple:In short, let us assume that the simple law of the constancy of the
EVI:Curves:the surface. These satisfy the same conditions as the _u_-curves, they
SEQ:Measure:Energy
EVI:Laws:mechanical laws of Galilei-Newton hold good exactly as they do with
SEQ:Still:Take
SEQ:Measuring:Along
EVI:Relativity:of deductions from the special theory of relativity, and in themselves
EVI:Ordinates:and _P′_ on the surface then correspond to the co-ordinates
SEQ:Negligibly:Small
EVI:Time:embankment. How are we to find the place and time of an event in
SEQ:Themselves:Clearly
EVI:Similarly:Similarly, the world of physical phenomena which was briefly called
CON:Region
SEQ:Represent:Difference
EVI:Lawson:Authorised Translation by Robert W. Lawson
SEQ:Especially:When
EVI:Propositions:π exactly. This proves that the propositions of Euclidean geometry
REL:Coincidence:Space
EVI:Orientation:_K′_. For the relative orientation in space of the co-ordinate systems
SEQ:Transmission:Signal
CON:Plan
EVI:Surprised:and of the little rods, about which I can only be thankfully surprised.
EVI:Whether:with the same velocity _w with respect to the liquid_, whether the
SEQ:Becomes:Identical
SEQ:Provide:Copy
CON:Detect
EVI:Remain:constituting the electron remain unchanged during the motion of the
EVI:Proportional:proportional to ρ0_V_. For unit area of the surface of the sphere the
SEQ:Euclidean:Euclidean
SEQ:Conflict:Principle
EVI:Allow:data does not allow of any definite decision being arrived at, as to
EVI:Further:[4] It is not necessary here to investigate further the significance
SEQ:Heuristic:Value
REL:Mode:Thought
EVI:Half:It may be added that, according to the theory, half of this deflection
EVI:Pans:on the range are two pans so much alike that one may be mistaken for
EVI:Reference:with respect to the original reference-body _K_. But the observer on
EVI:Following:the following way. As seen from the earth, certain fixed stars appear
EVI:According:Then according to Gauss we have
EVI:Minimum:grows from a minimum to a maximum, and then decreases again to a
EVI:According:It may be added that, according to the theory, half of this deflection
REL:Orbit:Mercury
EVI:Here:here replaced by the velocity of light relative to the embankment. _w_
EVI:Appreciate:We can now appreciate why that argument is not convincing, which we
EVI:Sought:specifications of position must always be sought in accordance with the
CON:Repeatedly
EVI:Received:where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
EVI:Inertial:(Force) = (inertial mass) x (acceleration),
EVI:Corresponding:here we have the general case, corresponding to the marble slab with
EVI:Fact:recognition of the fact, that we can cast doubt on the _infiniteness_
EVI:Except:and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
EVI:Space:space means nothing else than that we imagine an epitome of our “space”
EVI:Transmission:accordance with the Lorentz transformation, the law of the transmission
SEQ:Beings:Flat
EVI:Universe:quasi-Euclidean universe the average density of matter would
EVI:Other:set forth in Section V. For, like every other general law of nature,
REL:Consequence:Equation
SEQ:Very:Perplexing
CON:Placed
SEQ:Real:Body
SEQ:Treatment:Continua
EVI:Must:simultaneity, namely, that in every real case it must supply us with an
SEQ:Arrangement:Little
EVI:Should:Certain considerations suggest that we should refer the same Galileian
EVI:Suitable:coincide for observation with one eye, under suitable choice of our
EVI:Light:able to show that the velocity of propagation of light cannot depend on
EVI:Hardly:shall hardly be able to compare the results of the previous section
EVI:Lines:uniformly and in straight lines.
SEQ:Potential:Gravitational
EVI:Revised:Written: 1916 (this revised edition: 1924)
EVI:Supply:simultaneity, namely, that in every real case it must supply us with an
SEQ:Diagram:Problem
SEQ:Object:Space
EVI:Himself:correctly, but also the field of force experienced by himself.
SEQ:Effect:Manifests
EVI:Physical:The following statements hold generally: Every physical description
EVI:Ordinates:GAUSSIAN CO-ORDINATES
CON:Retaining
EVI:Same:the condition of transformation in exactly the same way as the space
EVI:Consequently:and he consequently comes to the conclusion that the chest is suspended
SEQ:Question:Tested
EVI:Because:uniformly. We call its motion a uniform translation (“uniform” because
CON:Directions
SEQ:Potential:Centrifugal
SEQ:Require:Some
EVI:Accuracy:or with sufficient accuracy by
CON:Solicitation
EVI:Increasing:for still further increasing values of _r_, the area gradually
EVI:Require:explanation; of course it would require some consideration if I were to
EVI:Field:exactly the same manner in a gravitational field (_in vacuo_), when
SEQ:Approach:Offers
EVI:When:natural processes, the laws of which are already known when a
EVI:Bodies:of moving bodies follows from the two fundamental principles of the
EVI:Uniformly:calculation indicate that if matter be distributed uniformly, the
EVI:Project:agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
EVI:Proceed:that these propositions are true?” Let us proceed to give this question
CON:Alternate
SEQ:Where:Lightning
EVI:Velocity:the velocity of transmission of light _in vacuo_ has to be considered
CON:Refraction
EVI:Copies:all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
SEQ:Speak:Essential
EVI:Space:regarding _K_ as at rest with respect to a hypothetical æther of space.
SEQ:Direction:Both
EVI:Know:slovenliness of treatment, which, as we know from the special theory of
SEQ:Body:Comes
CON:Than
EVI:Universe:universe would necessarily be spherical (or elliptical). Since in
EVI:Independence:of its independence. This is shown by the fourth equation of the
EVI:Postulate:problems to which we are led by the general postulate of relativity.
SEQ:Answer:Self
CON:Suffer
EVI:Reader:field. Before proceeding farther, however, I must warn the reader
EVI:Hypothesis:hypothesis about the law of propagation of light; it must certainly be
SEQ:Systematically:Holding
SEQ:Describing:Latter
SEQ:Time:Variable
EVI:Reference:with reference to the æther, this time _T′_ is different when the body
EVI:Preserve:theoretical point of view. He realized that it was possible to preserve
REL:Signal:Sent
EVI:Describing:the surface by describing the latter as a continuum.
EVI:Dimensional:surmount this difficulty. We refer the four-dimensional space-time
EVI:Recognition:found rather in the fact of his recognition that the four-dimensional
SEQ:Whether:Sense
EVI:Event:manner. What are the values _x′, y′, z′, t′_, of an event with respect
EVI:Such:always choose another reference-body such that _no_ gravitational field
EVI:Cannot:frequently referred, cannot claim any unlimited validity. A curvature
SEQ:Occur:Distribution
CON:Disturb
SEQ:Confine:Application
REL:Respect:Time
SEQ:Stone:Falls
EVI:Priority:reference-bodies (or their states of motion) are given priority over
SEQ:These:Questions
EVI:World:for all points of the “worldsphere”; in other words, the “world-sphere”
EVI:Transmission:the postulate of relativity, that the transmission of the signal in
EVI:Equivalent:co-ordinate systems are essentially equivalent for the formulation of
SEQ:Standpoint:Question
EVI:Galileian:_not_ derivable from the Galileian special case, simply by means of a
SEQ:Laid:Other
EVI:Being:deductions from the theory which admit of being tested by observation,
EVI:Have:1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:
REL:Signification:Time
EVI:Hold:In this case relations hold in the four-dimensional continuum which are
CON:Elapses
EVI:Something:plane: something like the rippled surface of a lake. Such a universe
SEQ:Description:Natural
EVI:Uniform:If the motion of the carriage is now changed into a non-uniform motion,
EVI:Section:Moreover, the considerations of Section VI are based on yet a second
EVI:Plane:on a spherical surface instead of on a plane. The flat beings with
EVI:Reference:point with reference to the system _K_ (of the man with reference to
EVI:Dimensional:Let us consider now a second two-dimensional existence, but this time
EVI:Between:during the interval between one perihelion and the next.) In this
CON:Evolution
SEQ:Energy:Taken
SEQ:Basis:Euclidean
EVI:Three:event to those three plane surfaces. The lengths of these three
EVI:Required:number of these operations required is the numerical measure of the
CON:Spacious
SEQ:Experimental:Physicists
SEQ:Other:Then
EVI:Perpetually:perpetually passing out into infinite space, never to return, and
EVI:Only:must be placed on a new basis. It can only be got rid of by means of a
EVI:Observed:the clock at the centre of the circular disc, _i.e._ as observed from
EVI:Fact:consideration lies in the recognition of the fact that _the universe of
CON:Leading
SEQ:Such:Drift
EVI:These:these beings is finite and yet has no limits._
CON:Innumerable
EVI:Actions:as instantaneous actions at a distance (not involving an intermediary
CON:Invalidate
SEQ:Credit:Card
EVI:Observer:the same time. If the observer perceives the two flashes of lightning
EVI:Method:simultaneity such that this definition supplies us with the method by
SEQ:Careful:Observations
EVI:Discovery:discovery of Minkowski, which was of importance for the formal
EVI:Since:Since the introduction of the special principle of relativity has been
SEQ:Tested:Experience
SEQ:Circumstance:However
EVI:Necessarily:universe would necessarily be spherical (or elliptical). Since in
EVI:Conclusion:that this conclusion cannot be maintained.
EVI:Equation:system _K′_ in accordance with the equation
SEQ:Externally:Hook
EVI:Relativity:of relativity (Section VII) has been derived by means of a
EVI:Such:payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
SEQ:Sensible:Motion
EVI:Body:body to which the specification of place refers; “Trafalgar Square,
EVI:Drawing:drawing on hypotheses as to the physical nature of the liquid.
EVI:Connection:finite. In fact, the theory supplies us with a simple connection[25]
CON:Simplified
SEQ:Them:Relations
SEQ:Provide:Access
EVI:Changing:law for the space-time magnitudes of an event when changing over from
SEQ:Others:Appendix
CON:Requirements
SEQ:Fitness:Purpose
EVI:Rods:influence of the gravitational field on measuring-rods, clocks and
SEQ:Requirement:Illustration
EVI:Direction:it is of constant velocity and direction, “translation” because
EVI:Relative:assuming that the motion of the body relative to the æther produces a
EVI:Relativity:between the principle of relativity and the law of propagation of
SEQ:Physicists:Becoming
SEQ:Conscience:Grave
SEQ:Copying:Distributing
SEQ:Following:Material
EVI:Moving:of moving bodies follows from the two fundamental principles of the
EVI:Expression:expression _a_ represents the major semi-axis of the ellipse, _e_ its
EVI:Mathematical:the demands of the (special) theory of relativity assume mathematical
REL:Consists:Three
EVI:Identify:effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
SEQ:Regard:Action
EVI:Relative:Galileian domain relative to a Galileian body of reference _K_. By
EVI:Motions:represent the motions of the points in question have a particular
SEQ:Parts:World
SEQ:Consideration:Have
SEQ:Nothing:More
SEQ:Expect:Direction
EVI:Masses:masses move with respect to the coordinate system with velocities which
EVI:Methods:have no further difficulty in understanding the methods leading to the
CON:Grounds
EVI:Processes:description of natural processes, neither of the reference bodies _K,
SEQ:Relativity:Attribute
EVI:Body:(_b_) the railway carriage as reference-body,
SEQ:Small:Part
SEQ:Means:Square
CON:Generality
CON:Entitled
EVI:Methods:by the methods of geometry, but that it is in itself entirely without
EVI:Sense:transformations in the special sense and from purely spatial
SEQ:Sections:Xxiii
SEQ:Must:Certainly
EVI:Geometry:undertook the task of treating this two-dimensional geometry from
SEQ:Travel:Through
EVI:Becomes:circle continues to increase more and more, until finally it becomes
EVI:Motion:motion of _K′_ against the æther (“æther-drift” relative to _K′_) were
EVI:Thus:circular disc. Thus on our circular disc, or, to make the case more
EVI:Reasonable:(at rest). For this reason it is not possible to obtain a reasonable
EVI:Gutenberg:Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
EVI:Practically:which they have access is in both cases practically plane, or
SEQ:Spherical:Universe
SEQ:Sent:Project
EVI:Moreover:We now proceed to the second argument, to which, moreover, we shall
SEQ:Lightning:Flash
CON:Finds
EVI:Constants:convenience the constants _a_ and _b_ in place of the constants λ and μ
EVI:Such:since the equations of such a theory hold for every body of reference,
EVI:These:contrary. It has been assumed that all these clocks _go at the same
SEQ:Section:Xiii
SEQ:Ought:Pointed
EVI:Must:out that this formulation must be replaced later by a more abstract
REL:Necessary:Take
SEQ:Uniformly:Plane
SEQ:Ordinates:Contrast
EVI:Several:several theories, which differ from one another to a considerable
EVI:Effect:solution. Owing to the smallness of the effect in the case of the sun,
EVI:Observed:this were not the case, the minimum of emission would not be observed
SEQ:Farther:However
CON:When
SEQ:Constant:Regard
SEQ:Likewise:Satisfy
CON:Reader
EVI:Reached:radius until the “circumference of the universe” is reached, and that
SEQ:Time:Independent
EVI:States:other reference-bodies (or their states of motion)? _What is the reason
SEQ:Pass:Over
EVI:Ordinate:condition that, from amongst all possible Galileian co-ordinate
EVI:Donations:methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
EVI:Theory:to the introduction of a more comprehensive theory, in which it lives
EVI:Beauty:postulate of relativity excels not only in its beauty; nor in removing
SEQ:Powerful:Jerk
SEQ:Century:Amount
EVI:Round:ellipse rotates round the sun in the same sense as the orbital motion
EVI:Comply:comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
EVI:Really:If everything has really gone smoothly, then I say that the points of
SEQ:Fees:Charges
EVI:Appear:astronomy makes it appear likely that the development of individual
EVI:Dark:by its dark neighbour. By means of similar considerations based on
EVI:Other:mirror to the other and back again, if the whole system be at rest with
EVI:Mathematically:Mathematically, we can characterise the generalised Lorentz
SEQ:Loose:Network
SEQ:Translational:Motion
EVI:Systems:the law of transmission of light for all Galileian systems of
EVI:Emitted:with respect to be embankment, we mean: the rays of light emitted at
REL:Velocity:Motion
SEQ:Consistent:According
EVI:Formal:“world” in a formal manner as a four-dimensional Euclidean space (with
EVI:Successive:the origin (_x′_ = 0) of _K′_. _t′_ = 0 and _t′_ = 1 are two successive
SEQ:Alike:Mistaken
REL:Equations:Gravitation
SEQ:Also:Velocity
SEQ:Reference:Little
EVI:Points:From this we conclude that two points on the _x_-axis separated by the
EVI:Cottingham:astronomers (Eddington, Cottingham, Crommelin, Davidson), in order to
SEQ:Relativity:Light
EVI:Rigid:rigid body.
SEQ:Experimental:Facts
SEQ:Brought:Forward
SEQ:Traverses:Distance
EVI:Does:the use of divided measuring-rods, the introduction of which does not
EVI:Property:property of being uniquely determined by two points situated on it. The
EVI:Insert:we have to insert a particular value of _t_ (time of _K_), _e.g._ _t_ =
CON:Conviction
SEQ:Satisfactory:Still
EVI:Theory:XXVII. The Space-Time Continuum of the General Theory of Relativity is Not a Euclidean Continuum
EVI:Construction:aid, since the above construction can no longer be carried out. But
EVI:Spacious:reference-body let us imagine a spacious chest resembling a room with
SEQ:Exists:During
SEQ:Things:Feeling
CON:Solely
SEQ:Processes:Take
REL:Connection:These
EVI:Required:legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
CON:Floor
SEQ:Nature:Meet
CON:Conjunction
EVI:Reader:mature consideration the reader will doubtless admit that in reality
EVI:Convert:1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
EVI:Space:(1) There exists an average density of matter in the whole of space
EVI:Sense:only in the sense of Doppler’s principle, as an expansive motion of the
CON:Terminate
SEQ:Considerable:Portion
EVI:Reality:reality the detailed distribution of matter is not uniform, the real
EVI:Propagated:If every ray of light is propagated relative to the embankment with the
SEQ:Also:Equal
SEQ:Reference:Cartesian
SEQ:These:Spherical
EVI:Only:shall leave it here at present, and revert to it only towards the end
SEQ:Strokes:Occurred
EVI:Directly:Euclidean. It follows directly from this discussion, that for our
EVI:Slab:the marble slab constitute a Euclidean continuum with respect to the
EVI:Grossly:distance without our proceeding being in the highest measure grossly
EVI:Simple:abandon either the principle of relativity or the simple law of the
SEQ:Work:Part
EVI:Project:work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.
EVI:Principle:XXVIII. Exact Formulation of the General Principle of Relativity
EVI:Same:both clocks go at the same rate from the standpoint of the non-rotating
EVI:Itself:in Section VI becomes invalid. The possibility presents itself that the
SEQ:Part:Walking
EVI:These:assumed only for these reference-bodies, but not for others (_e.g._
EVI:Definite:the gravitational field in space must be a perfectly definite one, in
EVI:Equations:By adding (or subtracting) equations (3) and (4), and introducing for
SEQ:Until:Circumference
EVI:Follow:Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
EVI:Theory:this latter theory the velocity of light must always depend on the
CON:Making
SEQ:Gravitational:Inertial
SEQ:Once:More
CON:Signification
SEQ:Must:Appear
EVI:Should:we should expect that a ray of light which is passing close to a
EVI:Circular:circular disc. Thus on our circular disc, or, to make the case more
SEQ:Matter:Although
CON:Formally
SEQ:Impossible:Without
CON:Faced
EVI:Being:something being what we call a “magnetic field.” In its turn this
CON:Redistribute
EVI:Measured:train_,—then this distance—_as measured from the embankment_ is not
SEQ:General:Curvilinear
SEQ:Make:Additional
EVI:Last:The results of the last three sections show that the apparent
EVI:Another:one body of reference to another.
SEQ:Same:Format
REL:Seems:Result
EVI:Laws:nature; the laws themselves must be quite independent of the choice of
EVI:Then:character of times and lengths, then instead of the above we should
SEQ:Length:Mean
EVI:Experienced:correctly, but also the field of force experienced by himself.
CON:Inversely
SEQ:Even:Have
EVI:Displaying:prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
EVI:Energy:the change in the energy of the body. The inertial mass of a system of
EVI:Body:motion as our body of reference. We should then be justified (because
EVI:Marble:heat the central part of the marble slab, but not the periphery, in
EVI:Enough:enough to make themselves perceptible as a change in the inertial mass
EVI:Small:outset, that this matter lays no small claims on the patience and on
SEQ:Following:Moment
REL:Choice:Reference
SEQ:Euclidean:Follows
CON:Obtained
EVI:Stellar:discrepancies to be expected between the stellar photographs obtained
CON:Practically
EVI:Other:(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
CON:Mean
EVI:Uniform:uniform motion. At all events it is clear that the Galileian law does
EVI:Classical:by means of classical mechanics only on the assumption of hypotheses
EVI:Also:_differences_, and thus also for co-ordinate differentials
EVI:Earlier:Hence the observer will see the beam of light emitted from _B_ earlier
EVI:Time:time mentioned above. Comparison with the discussion in Section XII
EVI:Theory:the Maxwell-Lorentz theory, which are at the same time arguments in
EVI:Relativity:The principle of relativity requires that the law of the conservation
EVI:Individual:universe will deviate in individual parts from the spherical, _i.e._
EVI:Below:forth in Section 3 below.
EVI:Forest:wanderer who was unable to see the forest for the trees. May the book
EVI:Compared:played a different and more independent rôle, as compared with the
EVI:Such:also influenced by gravitational fields, and in such a way that a
EVI:Have:and other appreciable masses, that we have before us approximately the
EVI:Without:electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
REL:Motion:Clocks
EVI:Suggests:railway line. Here the following method suggests itself. If we call
EVI:Positions:positions relative to the body of reference (railway carriage or
SEQ:Unheard:Values
CON:Fitness
EVI:Delicacy:delicacy of detail little short of wonderful. The principle of
SEQ:Description:Position
REL:Observations:Double
SEQ:Orbit:Should
CON:Nearly
EVI:Special:the form of the natural extension of the special principle of
EVI:Project:1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
SEQ:Measures:Interval
EVI:Development:problem”) has had an important development, which ought to be mentioned
EVI:Agreement:accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
EVI:Suppose:experiment would be unsuccessful. We shall suppose that the rods
EVI:Most:from the foregoing considerations, and which has been most elegantly
CON:Relying
EVI:Universe:consideration lies in the recognition of the fact that _the universe of
EVI:Errs:Ought we to smile at the man and say that he errs in his conclusion? I
SEQ:Above:Construction
EVI:Number:[24] _Proof_—According to the theory of Newton, the number of “lines
EVI:Experiments:perceptible in terrestrial experiments. We have already remarked in
SEQ:Corresponding:Same
EVI:Also:indicated, we are also in a position to establish the distance between
EVI:Tube:How quickly does it travel in the direction of the arrow in the tube
EVI:Mark:point, and mark off from each of these the distance _r_ with a
EVI:Arrived:this law. On the contrary, we arrived at the result that according to
EVI:Sending:receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
CON:Aged
SEQ:When:Know
CON:Constancy
CON:Indicated
SEQ:Velocities:Employed
SEQ:Assertion:These
EVI:Then:of motion has been suitably chosen. _K_ is then a Galileian
SEQ:Objection:Must
SEQ:Experiences:Downward
EVI:Trademark:concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
CON:Soon
CON:Earlier
SEQ:Immediately:Follows
SEQ:Matter:Lays
SEQ:Arrive:Corner
CON:Rather
SEQ:Fields:Obtainable
EVI:Generally:generally for gravitational fields. Furthermore, we can regard an atom
EVI:Influence:throwing it. Then, disregarding the influence of the air resistance, I
SEQ:Purpose:Such
SEQ:Different:Time
EVI:Copies:copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
EVI:Transmission:of the transmission of light in vacuo is satisfied for one and the same
EVI:Theorem:disappears, because the theorem of the addition of velocities derived
EVI:Force:correctly, but also the field of force experienced by himself.
EVI:Quickly:How quickly does it travel in the direction of the arrow in the tube
EVI:Continues:circle continues to increase more and more, until finally it becomes
EVI:Reference:as follows: The special theory of relativity has reference to Galileian
EVI:Opinion:it is difficult to form an opinion as to its existence. Whereas Grebe
EVI:Physical:co-ordinates which allowed of a simple and direct physical
SEQ:Xxix:Solution
EVI:Rightly:me—and rightly so—and you declare: “I maintain my previous definition
SEQ:High:Degree
SEQ:Correct:Within
EVI:Mathematical:the theory, but who are not conversant with the mathematical apparatus
CON:Incidental
EVI:Moves:itself and sufficiently far removed from all other particles moves
EVI:Used:For this reason non-rigid reference-bodies are used, which are as a
EVI:Special:accordance with the special theory of relativity, certain co-ordinate
SEQ:Masses:Diminishes
REL:Contrast:Electric
EVI:Relations:that the relations of the Galileian transformation exist between the
SEQ:Foundation:Royalty
REL:Coincides:Space
SEQ:Principle:Such
SEQ:Laid:Dust
SEQ:Clocks:Satisfy
SEQ:Longer:Straight
SEQ:Section:Below
EVI:Increases:less than 4π_r_2. With increasing values of _r, F_ increases from zero
EVI:Experiment:Michelson and Morley performed an experiment involving interference in
EVI:Hypothetical:year, the earth cannot be at rest relative to the hypothetical system
SEQ:Time:Case
EVI:Admit:deductions from the theory which admit of being tested by observation,
SEQ:Gauss:Ordinate
EVI:Variations:local variations of temperature, and with which we made acquaintance as
EVI:Analogous:are regarded in an analogous manner.
EVI:Xiii:XIII. Theorem of the Addition of Velocities. The Experiment of Fizeau
EVI:Than:they are nothing more than the expression of the universal validity of
SEQ:Surface:Ellipsoid
EVI:About:Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
EVI:Because:disappears, because the theorem of the addition of velocities derived
REL:Itself:Needs
SEQ:Without:Committing
SEQ:Importance:Effect
EVI:Time:time of an event.
SEQ:Only:Serve
SEQ:Hence:Cannot
SEQ:Solicitation:Requirements
CON:Absent
SEQ:Clocks:Same
SEQ:Grows:Minimum
EVI:Electronic:1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
EVI:Equations:This system of equations is known as the “Lorentz transformation.”[9]
EVI:Quasi:quasi-Euclidean universe the average density of matter would
SEQ:Must:Require
REL:According:Recent
SEQ:Heating:Because
EVI:Thought:of thought. We are accustomed further to regard three points as being
SEQ:Lengths:Then
SEQ:Discussion:Appendix
SEQ:Experiment:Demonstrate
EVI:Other:latter is in motion with reference to other bodies or not. The velocity
SEQ:Consideration:Advantageous
REL:Used:Discussing
SEQ:Transformation:Coordinates
EVI:Universe:the universe only if we base our considerations on the state of the
REL:Experience:Such
EVI:Indeed:the theory of relativity, and the agreement is, indeed, very exact.
SEQ:Towards:Ceiling
EVI:Processes:processes which take place according to known laws when a gravitational
EVI:Speak:(_c_) We speak of the height of the cloud even when the pole which
EVI:Added:copyright restrictions so cannot be added without the permission of the
EVI:Great:result is of great importance.
SEQ:Abscissa:Time
EVI:Farther:We advance a step farther in our generalisation when we express the
REL:Field:Present
EVI:World:four-dimensional “world.”
EVI:Simple:simple conditions. Let us consider two neighbouring events, the
EVI:Like:fashion, so that readers unfamiliar with physics may not feel like the
EVI:Still:it thenceforward gradually decreases to zero for still further
SEQ:Indicates:Constant
REL:Time:Traverse
EVI:Basis:basis of theory. The special theory of relativity has rendered the
EVI:Referred:immediately follows. If referred to the system _K′_, the propagation of
REL:Sense:Classical
SEQ:Entertain:Hope
SEQ:Inserting:Values
REL:Means:Purely
EVI:Less:and “straight line,” with which we are able to associate more or less
EVI:Light:We suppose a light-signal sent out from the origin of _K_ at the time
SEQ:Transformed:Exactly
SEQ:Original:Theory
EVI:Space:space with respect to _K_ by the three perpendiculars _x, y, z_ on the
SEQ:When:Respect
SEQ:Correct:Ought
EVI:Provided:provided they do not use too small a piece of it. Starting from a
SEQ:Shall:Deal
SEQ:Known:Natural
SEQ:Statement:Need
CON:Reaches
SEQ:Obtained:Here
CON:Possibility
SEQ:Disc:Clocks
EVI:These:error, we can disregard the fact that in reality these frameworks would
SEQ:Derived:Recognised
EVI:Without:introduction of an auxiliary hypothesis, which in itself—_i.e._ without
EVI:When:The non-mathematician is seized by a mysterious shuddering when he
EVI:Time:we have just written down does not hold in reality. For the time being,
EVI:Constant:is constant throughout the universe, then a sphere of volume _V_ will
SEQ:Again:Coming
SEQ:Such:Definition
SEQ:Relativity:Leads
SEQ:Surface:Differs
SEQ:Justifiable:Electrodynamical
EVI:Carriage:the flying raven from the moving railway carriage. we should find that
SEQ:Reached:During
SEQ:Universe:Thus
EVI:Together:I further want to remark that the theory of expanding space, together
EVI:Justification:justification for this incidental conception, which is indeed a
SEQ:Footpath:Notices
EVI:Take:Newton-Kepler motion of a planet in its orbit should take place, and in
EVI:Dimensional:To this two-dimensional sphere-universe there is a three-dimensional
SEQ:Rough:Approximation
EVI:Theorie:entitled “Zur Prüfung der allgemeinen Relativitäts-Theorie” (_Die
EVI:Means:carried out by means of the rods _e.g._ the lattice construction,
SEQ:Access:Both
EVI:Equal:impossible to construct a Cartesian co-ordinate system from equal rods,
EVI:Middle:computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
SEQ:Increasing:Number
CON:Destiny
SEQ:Farther:Until
REL:Refund:Writing
EVI:Followed:reference-bodies, in the sense of the method followed in the special
EVI:Descend:see the stone descend in a straight line. A pedestrian who observes the
SEQ:Flat:Things
EVI:Holds:continua. For example, this obviously holds in the case of the marble
SEQ:Such:Rapid
EVI:Velocity:the velocity of another point of _K′_ relative to _K_, or the velocity
SEQ:Later:Stage
EVI:Make:question, I shall make use of a comparison.
EVI:Known:processes which take place according to known laws when a gravitational
SEQ:Observation:Owing
EVI:Such:of gravity, lies in one of the foci of the orbital ellipse in such a
EVI:Spherical:(2π2_R_3). Is it possible to imagine a spherical space? To imagine a
EVI:Terms:does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
EVI:Transmission:transmission of electromagnetic waves. The effects of gravitation also
EVI:Relative:which is rigidly attached to the earth, then, relative to this system,
EVI:Thus:Since equation (8_a_) must hold for points on the _x_-axis, we thus
EVI:Even:generally accepted by physicists even if experiment had decided less
SEQ:Whereas:Clock
EVI:Train:simultaneous _relatively to the train?_ We shall show directly that the
EVI:Principle:XVIII. Special and General Principle of Relativity
EVI:Sufficiently:Even though classical mechanics does not supply us with a sufficiently
SEQ:Mass:Characteristic
EVI:Gutenberg:﻿The Project Gutenberg eBook of Relativity: The Special and General Theory
SEQ:Against:Floor
EVI:Accepted:methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
SEQ:During:Solar
EVI:Evidence:such encounters constitute the only actual evidence of a time-space
EVI:However:any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
EVI:Incomplete:possible. This incomplete suggestion will suffice for the present
EVI:Relative:condition of uniform motion of translation. Relative to _K′_ the
CON:Shorter
EVI:Plane:This consists of three plane surfaces perpendicular to each other and
CON:Contract
SEQ:Devised:Method
SEQ:Especially:Since
SEQ:Values:These
SEQ:Treat:Matter
SEQ:Have:Simply
EVI:Present:consideration. Up to the present we have only considered events taking
SEQ:Work:Work
SEQ:Holder:Found
EVI:Occurred:assertion that these two lightning flashes occurred simultaneously. If
EVI:Invalid:in Section VI becomes invalid. The possibility presents itself that the
EVI:Structure:matter. Thus we can draw conclusions about the geometrical structure of
EVI:General:XXVII. The Space-Time Continuum of the General Theory of Relativity is Not a Euclidean Continuum
EVI:Works:displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
EVI:Almost:most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
EVI:Point:point to point without executing “jumps.” I am sure the reader will
SEQ:Bodies:Suitable
SEQ:Considered:Reference
EVI:Body:point on the non-rigid reference-body. These clocks satisfy only the
SEQ:Displacements:Referred
EVI:Behaviour:attribute the different behaviour of the two pans.
EVI:Marble:continua. For example, this obviously holds in the case of the marble
CON:Easy
SEQ:Field:Purely
SEQ:Before:Deal
SEQ:Hypertext:Form
REL:Circle:Comparison
SEQ:Axes:Pointing
SEQ:Cost:Expense
EVI:Statement:respect to _K_. This statement is called the _principle of relativity_
SEQ:Readers:Unfamiliar
EVI:System:railway carriage would be a system _K_, relative to which less simple
SEQ:Sense:Understand
EVI:According:field will of course depend on the motion chosen for _K′._ According to
SEQ:Sharing:Project
CON:Disk
SEQ:Bears:Close
EVI:Immediate:immediate vicinity (in space) of the event. In this manner a time-value
SEQ:Constant:Value
EVI:Between:the distance between them. If we increase the accuracy of the
EVI:Should:question should take place—as judged from _K′_—in accordance with the
EVI:Difficulty:same difficulty with all physical statements in which the conception
EVI:Galileian:that the relations of the Galileian transformation exist between the
SEQ:Light:Period
EVI:Continuum:to the defined “size” or “distance,” small parts of the continuum under
SEQ:About:Structure
EVI:Passing:estimated magnitude for light rays passing the sun at grazing incidence
EVI:Reference:body (body of reference) with which that event or object coincides.
EVI:Sentence:prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
SEQ:Surface:Rigid
EVI:Satisfies:satisfies equation (11) for σ = 1; for (11) is a consequence of (8_a_)
SEQ:Learn:More
EVI:General:Nevertheless, there are two general facts which at the outset speak
EVI:Charitable:charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
EVI:Such:such encounters constitute the only actual evidence of a time-space
EVI:Considerations:considerations, the time required by a particular occurrence with
SEQ:Nature:Connection
CON:Success
EVI:Through:the iron through the intermediate empty space, but we are constrained
EVI:Number:process a (large) number of times, or, in other words, by going from
SEQ:Exempt:Status
SEQ:Every:Point
EVI:Should:systems, we should have chosen _one_ (_K0_) of a particular state of
EVI:Calculations:since calculations show that the metrics of surrounding space is
EVI:Body:velocity of transmission relative to the reference-body _K′_ is also
SEQ:Accelerated:Reference
EVI:Known:numbers, _x_1, _x_2, _x_3, _x_4, which are known as “co-ordinates.”
EVI:Above:above considerations.[5]
EVI:Reality:here. In reality they limit the theoretical possibilities to such an
SEQ:Such:Manner
CON:Acceptance
SEQ:Interpreted:Regard
EVI:Conceivable:are conceivable. From amongst these, the spherical space (and the
REL:Volunteers:Donations
SEQ:Influence:Moving
EVI:Although:density of matter, although very variable in detail, is nevertheless on
EVI:General:detour in order to be able to apply the postulate of general relativity
SEQ:Universe:Only
EVI:Rotating:when the reference-body is rotating uniformly.
EVI:Four:“world” by Minkowski is naturally four dimensional in the space-time
EVI:System:description. The Gauss co-ordinate system has to take the place of the
SEQ:Newton:Does
SEQ:Body:Means
EVI:Former:lead directly to those of the former for the case in which the fields
SEQ:Problems:General
SEQ:Metrics:Surrounding
SEQ:Unless:Copyright
EVI:Bodies:requires that all these molluscs can be used as reference-bodies with
SEQ:Holds:Relative
EVI:Notice:the other. Both are half full of water. I notice that steam is being
SEQ:Real:Something
EVI:Considerations:forms the basis of our considerations.
SEQ:Laws:Appeared
EVI:References:1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:
SEQ:Moving:Relatively
EVI:Already:We already know from our previous discussion that the behaviour of
EVI:Principle:XXII. A Few Inferences from the General Principle of Relativity
EVI:Each:points on this surface which are distinguishable from each other. But
SEQ:Then:Left
CON:Granted
EVI:Secure:Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
EVI:Reference:justified on the grounds of experience in supposing his reference-body
EVI:Relative:relative to the tube.
EVI:Hand:body.” On the other hand, an observer who is poised freely in space
SEQ:Result:First
SEQ:Invalidates:Definition
EVI:Respect:the marble slab constitute a Euclidean continuum with respect to the
CON:Intermediate
EVI:Gravitational:exactly the same manner in a gravitational field (_in vacuo_), when
CON:Heaviness
EVI:Required:(_a_) The required generalisation must likewise satisfy the general
EVI:Electronic:Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
SEQ:Similar:Considerations
EVI:Observer:_K_. It is obvious that the same effect would be noted by an observer
SEQ:Trademark:Project
EVI:Extent:Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
CON:Relation
SEQ:Experience:Many
EVI:Deductions:deductions from two theories in Newtonian mechanics on the one hand,
SEQ:Also:Support
SEQ:Arrived:Similar
SEQ:Geometrical:Space
SEQ:Galileian:Holds
EVI:Ordinates:II. The System of Co-ordinates
SEQ:Disc:Means
EVI:Times:have to do with places and times relative both to the train and to the
EVI:Unsatisfactory:SPECIAL THEORY OF RELATIVITY UNSATISFACTORY?
EVI:Soon:deductive thought in the development of an exact science. As soon as a
SEQ:Foretold:Theory
SEQ:Encounter:Expressed
EVI:Walking:light plays the part of the man walking along relatively to the
EVI:Liquid:system _K_, the liquid plays the part of the carriage or of the
EVI:Supplemented:referred, supplemented in such a manner that the object whose position
EVI:Values:unheard-of values—provided that we are viewing all this from another
EVI:Existence:retention of the separate existence of the
CON:Millionths
SEQ:Forth:Agreement
SEQ:Define:Exactly
SEQ:Thus:Capable
EVI:Field:field which is constant with regard to time. Of course he will be
SEQ:Must:Regard
EVI:Velocity:are small as compared with the velocity of transmission of light. We
EVI:Thing:same thing, on the law of the equality of inertial and gravitational
EVI:Stars:registration of stars during a total eclipse of the sun. The only
EVI:Always:Now before the advent of the theory of relativity it had always tacitly
EVI:Right:the following objection: “Your definition would certainly be right, if
SEQ:Quadrilateral:Figure
SEQ:Stellar:Photographs
SEQ:Represent:Diminution
EVI:Gutenberg:Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
CON:Computer
CON:Possession
SEQ:Must:Feel
EVI:Practically:position of practically rigid bodies.[1] Geometry which has been
EVI:Solution:solution of the problem of gravitation.
SEQ:Appeared:Inevitable
EVI:Diameter:independent of the diameter of the circle. On their spherical surface
EVI:Further:it thenceforward gradually decreases to zero for still further
EVI:Distance:covers the distance _w_ in a unit of time—_measured from the
EVI:Other:etc., which are moving uniformly relative to each other, will not be
EVI:Metre:If, on the contrary, we had considered a metre-rod at rest in the
SEQ:Earth:Long
SEQ:Corresponds:Theorem
CON:Pointing
EVI:Properties:Euclidean properties; thus the fictitious rigid body of reference is of
SEQ:Guided:Example
EVI:About:course much less. Let us inquire about the velocity of propagation of
EVI:Special:XXI. In What Respects are the Foundations of Classical Mechanics and of the Special Theory of Relativity Unsatisfactory?
SEQ:Asserts:What
EVI:Railway:embankment and the railway carriage, we can express the fact of the
SEQ:Clock:Centre
SEQ:Corresponding:Manner
EVI:Existence:existence of the effect almost beyond doubt, while other investigators,
SEQ:Century:Result
EVI:Supposing:with this answer for the following reason. Supposing that as a result
EVI:Dimensional:point, we thus have a (uni-dimensional) line in the four-dimensional
EVI:Chased:staircase of which you were chased about for uncounted hours by
EVI:Imagine:We imagine a large portion of empty space, so far removed from stars
EVI:Value:continuum, has the same value for all selected (Galileian)
EVI:Granted:referred. The resulting relationship takes for granted that the laws of
EVI:Than:In view of this dilemma there appears to be nothing else for it than to
EVI:Argument:We can now appreciate why that argument is not convincing, which we
EVI:System:“specially favoured” (unique) co-ordinate system to occasion the
EVI:Time:in which the “world radius” depends on time (expanding space). In that
SEQ:Motion:Respect
EVI:Light:co-ordinate system _K′_, and finally, the light plays the part of the
EVI:According:t′_, of a new reference-body _K′_. According to the general theory of
CON:Lays
SEQ:Simultaneity:Every
EVI:Indicate:calculation indicate that if matter be distributed uniformly, the
EVI:Both:Undaunted by the [first world] war and by difficulties of both a
EVI:Empirical:with the empirical data of astronomy, permit no decision to be reached
EVI:Introducing:hypothesis (1) without introducing the less natural cosmological term
SEQ:Exactly:Ordinates
EVI:Terms:the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
SEQ:Signify:Very
REL:Field:Absent
SEQ:Freely:Distributed
SEQ:Planet:During
SEQ:Space:Never
EVI:Einstein:Author: Albert Einstein
SEQ:General:Principle
SEQ:Half:Deflection
EVI:Satisfactory:mechanics, but it had not been _interpreted_. A satisfactory
EVI:Required:system of stars in the large—as required, according to Friedman, by the
EVI:Make:In the first part of this book we were able to make use of space-time
SEQ:Wonder:Have
EVI:Addition:disappears, because the theorem of the addition of velocities derived
EVI:Newton:[24] _Proof_—According to the theory of Newton, the number of “lines
EVI:Orientation:in all positions and in every orientation. Hence the idea of a straight
EVI:Planet:[26] Especially since the next planet Venus has an orbit that is
EVI:Imagine:imagine the air above it to have been removed. If a ray of light be
CON:Devoted
SEQ:Foundation:Imagine
EVI:Motion:through the air in such a manner that its motion, as observed from the
CON:Solved
EVI:Consequence:earth. But as a consequence of the deflection of light from the star by
SEQ:Considerations:Special
SEQ:Object:Geometry
CON:Michael
EVI:Proportionally:proportionally to the distance from the centre as we proceed outwards.
EVI:Light:law of the propagation of light _in vacuo_ may be compatible with the
SEQ:Shall:Make
SEQ:Mirrors:Inclined
SEQ:Thus:Comes
EVI:Exists:there exists a reference-body _K_, whose condition of motion is such
EVI:Mutually:introduce the hypothesis that the force of attraction between mutually
EVI:Points:order to see how the points of the _x′_-axis appear as viewed from _K_,
SEQ:Reference:Such
SEQ:Continuum:Every
EVI:Have:we must have
EVI:Infinite:infinite region of emptiness. The stellar universe ought to be a finite
SEQ:Different:Distances
SEQ:Except:Those
CON:Grazing
EVI:Impulse:the conservation of energy (and of impulse).
REL:Systems:Coordinates
EVI:Standard:earlier or later. As compared with the standard photograph, the
EVI:Describing:When we were describing the motion of a material point relative to a
EVI:Basis:must be placed on a new basis. It can only be got rid of by means of a
EVI:Light:the light of the following consideration.
REL:Number:Such
EVI:These:how these magnitudes are to be regarded as results of physical
SEQ:Other:Edge
SEQ:Then:Later
SEQ:Continuum:Described
SEQ:Surrounding:Space
SEQ:Notice:Bluish
SEQ:Considered:Negatively
SEQ:Consequence:Motion
SEQ:Arises:Astronomers
SEQ:Despite:Shortness
EVI:Galilei:The Galilei transformation can be obtained from the Lorentz
SEQ:Direction:Indicated
SEQ:Regarded:Being
EVI:Distributing:claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
SEQ:Ordinate:Systems
SEQ:Plane:Sense
EVI:Instead:instead of the real quantity _t_, we can regard the space-time
SEQ:Disc:Centre
CON:Proves
SEQ:Indirectly:Earth
EVI:During:angle described by the line joining sun and planet during such a period
CON:Strange
SEQ:Empirical:Equality
CON:Additional
EVI:Observation:observation.
CON:Remarkable
CON:Electrodynamics
CON:Manifested
SEQ:Constitute:System
SEQ:Therefore:Differentiate
EVI:Medium:other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
EVI:Practically:is practically constant for a small part of the slab, and thus the
EVI:Exact:deductive thought in the development of an exact science. As soon as a
EVI:Round:ellipse of every planet round the sun must necessarily rotate in the
EVI:Means:can be measured up by means of a measuring-rod. Similarly, this
EVI:Fact:found rather in the fact of his recognition that the four-dimensional
SEQ:According:Equation
EVI:Theory:direction according to the theory of relativity. The question now
EVI:Einstein:by Albert Einstein
CON:Sufficiently
EVI:Distribute:to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
CON:Mysterious
SEQ:Squares:Previous
SEQ:Long:Requirement
EVI:Theory:theory of relativity, is in general not possible in space-time
EVI:Propagation:propagation of light _in vacuo_. Those of you who have carefully
EVI:Then:the disc, then we have
EVI:Observations:spectrum was definitely established by Adams in 1924, by observations
EVI:Specification:(_a_) We imagine the rigid body, to which the place specification is
EVI:Reference:consider it with reference to the accelerated chest (reference-body
EVI:Conditions:Under these conditions, the _u_-curves and _v_-curves are straight
SEQ:Exist:Between
EVI:Amount:angle of deflection (α) should amount to
SEQ:Reflection:Detailed
SEQ:Behaviour:Bodies
EVI:Expressed:in both cases. This can also be expressed as follows: For the physical
EVI:When:(_c_) We speak of the height of the cloud even when the pole which
CON:Conclusion
EVI:Interval:(2) The space-interval (distance) between two points of a rigid body is
EVI:Stars:the calculated deviations of the stars (in seconds of arc) are set
SEQ:Directly:Such
CON:Schooldays
SEQ:Results:Obtained
SEQ:Construction:Stated
EVI:Gutenberg:to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
EVI:Renamed:be renamed.
SEQ:Becomes:Modified
EVI:Kind:the gravitational field under consideration is of a special kind. In
CON:Discussing
EVI:Event:event, no matter how far off it may be, could also be localised with
EVI:Uniformly:uniformly in a straight line with respect to a co-ordinate system _K_,
SEQ:Radius:Circle
EVI:Principle:reference-bodies. The validity of the principle of relativity was
SEQ:Uncounted:Hours
SEQ:Consider:Space
SEQ:Accordance:Lorentz
EVI:Place:to take for granted that the propagation of light always takes place
SEQ:States:Compliance
SEQ:Following:Modification
SEQ:Every:Position
EVI:Only:motions only in the case of electrons and ions; for other motions the
REL:Proposition:Then
CON:Radioactive
CON:Sacred
EVI:Copyright:copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
EVI:Energy:acceleration. If we develop the expression for the kinetic energy in
SEQ:Statement:Simultaneity
EVI:Plane:and to their flat “things” is the all-inclusive reality of their plane.
SEQ:Perform:Distribute
SEQ:These:Definitions
EVI:Body:slightly different time _T′_ is required for this process, if the body,
EVI:Course:time by corresponding values _x′, y′, z′, t′_, which of course are not
SEQ:Since:Necessary
EVI:Deductions:of deductions from the special theory of relativity, and in themselves
SEQ:Then:Justified
EVI:Length:(here the length of the pole measured with the measuring-rod) instead
EVI:Website:version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
EVI:Four:In this case relations hold in the four-dimensional continuum which are
EVI:Regards:whatsoever, as regards the manner in which it takes place in the
CON:Displacement
SEQ:Discovery:Minkowski
SEQ:Universe:Reached
SEQ:Consideration:Appears
EVI:Quite:the table, it is possible quite naturally to maintain the point of view
CON:Intersect
EVI:Reference:velocity of transmission relative to the reference-body _K′_ is also
EVI:Radius:considerable, the greater is the radius of the circle in comparison
CON:Allgemeinen
SEQ:Royalty:Payments
EVI:Situated:Let us now consider a seconds-clock which is permanently situated at
SEQ:Newton:Regarded
EVI:Irregularly:universe behaves analogously to a surface which is irregularly curved
EVI:Shun:entirely shun the vague word “space,” of which, we must honestly
EVI:Neither:neither takes up nor sends out energy. Writing the expression for the
SEQ:Event:Many
EVI:Relativity:making use of the theory of relativity—appears extraneous.
REL:Domain:Licensed
SEQ:Away:Earth
SEQ:Physicist:Boltzmann
EVI:Whole:_K0_ throughout the whole year. However, the most careful observations
EVI:Position:footpath the other. Each of the observers determines the position on
SEQ:Year:Earth
SEQ:Effect:Acceleration
SEQ:Arrangement:Does
SEQ:Introduction:Auxiliary
EVI:Exactness:with such exactness in one domain of phenomena, and yet should be
EVI:Discovered:electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
SEQ:Ebook:Except
SEQ:Refund:Described
EVI:Protect:To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
EVI:Universe:XXXI. The Possibility of a “Finite” and yet “Unbounded” Universe
EVI:Becoming:resulted in physicists becoming convinced that there are no such things
EVI:Transformation:Lorentz transformation.
SEQ:Relativity:Spite
SEQ:Exactly:Formulated
SEQ:Field:Particular
SEQ:Motion:Reason
SEQ:Proceed:Towards
CON:Perceive
EVI:Behaviour:XII. The Behaviour of Measuring-Rods and Clocks in Motion
CON:Strict
SEQ:Mode:Thought
SEQ:Shift:Discovered
EVI:Valuable:valuable heuristic aid in the search for general laws of nature. If a
CON:Contained
EVI:Clock:general, in every gravitational field, a clock will go more quickly or
EVI:Find:embankment. How are we to find the place and time of an event in
EVI:When:carriage, as hold with reference to the carriage when at rest or in
CON:School
SEQ:Disc:Sensible
EVI:Became:relativity became ripe for discussion, and it did not appear impossible
CON:Experiments
EVI:Project:immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
SEQ:Full:Water
EVI:Laws:assign an exact meaning to the natural laws in which these occur.
SEQ:Required:Prepare
SEQ:Case:Points
EVI:Associated:Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
SEQ:Without:Altering
EVI:Doubtless:mature consideration the reader will doubtless admit that in reality
EVI:Scenes:and independently of the positions of the scenes of the events with
SEQ:Generally:Available
EVI:Facts:Nevertheless, there are two general facts which at the outset speak
SEQ:Applies:Particularly
EVI:Straight:in all positions and in every orientation. Hence the idea of a straight
EVI:Decision:with the empirical data of astronomy, permit no decision to be reached
SEQ:Only:Valid
SEQ:Sections:Xxvi
SEQ:Affects:Only
CON:Short
SEQ:Continuum:Reference
REL:Means:Gauss
EVI:Forms:forms, in which the time co-ordinate plays exactly the same role as the
SEQ:Instead:Newton
EVI:Notices:misdeed from the footpath notices that the stone falls to earth in a
EVI:Tenable:are now no longer tenable. In that section we concluded that the man in
SEQ:Replacement:Refund
EVI:Marxists:http://www.marxists.org/reference/archive/einstein/index.htm
SEQ:Warn:Reader
SEQ:Consideration:Cast
EVI:Velocity:to the tube are thus known, and we require the velocity of light
SEQ:Curve:Must
CON:Possible
CON:Thence
EVI:Gravitational:a gravitational field _G_ (of a particular kind). We learn the
SEQ:Transmission:Acquired
EVI:Independent:significance, _i.e._ that it is independent of the state of motion of
EVI:Determined:perpendiculars can be determined by a series of manipulations with
EVI:Accustomed:of thought. We are accustomed further to regard three points as being
SEQ:Phenomena:Thus
EVI:Area:universe has a finite area that can be compared with the area, of a
EVI:Such:INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
EVI:Embankment:relative to the embankment, in this second, the distance w being
EVI:Detach:1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
EVI:Latter:Unlike the first, this latter statement need not of necessity hold _a
EVI:Briefly:briefly consider how this unification came about, and what meaning is
SEQ:Other:Planets
SEQ:Friend:Railway
EVI:Number:the measurement gives a whole number. This difficulty is got over by
EVI:Theory:the special theory of relativity and to which we have already
CON:Determined
EVI:Other:OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
SEQ:Position:Formulate
EVI:Make:bodies. By a suitable choice of units we can thus make this ratio equal
EVI:Adjacent:which belongs to two adjacent points of the four-dimensional space-time
EVI:Davidson:astronomers (Eddington, Cottingham, Crommelin, Davidson), in order to
EVI:Both:whether or not both the lightning strokes occurred simultaneously. As
SEQ:System:Should
SEQ:Without:Introduction
EVI:Acknowledge:acknowledge, we cannot form the slightest conception, and we replace it
EVI:Arbitrary:likewise be of arbitrary shape. It follows that a value of _u_ and a
EVI:Drawn:an infinitely large number to be drawn, all of which correspond to real
EVI:Finally:diminish, until finally, at great distances, it is succeeded by an
REL:Redistribution:Subject
EVI:Bonn:and Bachem (Bonn), as a result of their own measurements and those of
SEQ:Perpendicularly:Planes
REL:Enough:Make
SEQ:Time:Enters
SEQ:Fixed:Reference
SEQ:Choice:Reference
SEQ:Given:Relative
EVI:Things:and to their flat “things” is the all-inclusive reality of their plane.
SEQ:Equal:Right
SEQ:Marble:Table
EVI:Such:referred, supplemented in such a manner that the object whose position
SEQ:Laws:Galilei
EVI:Experiment:facts. Experiment[10] decides in favour of equation (B) derived from
SEQ:Planets:Exception
SEQ:Effect:Temperature
EVI:Because:reason why we must wait for a total eclipse is because at every other
SEQ:Able:Demonstrate
SEQ:Arbitrary:Method
EVI:Venus:[26] Especially since the next planet Venus has an orbit that is
EVI:Forth:forth in the following table of results:
SEQ:Difficulty:Mentioned
EVI:Updated:Most recently updated: May 2, 2023
EVI:Small:is too small in comparison with the mass _m_, which was present before
EVI:Section:set forth in Section V. For, like every other general law of nature,
EVI:Attraction:is produced by the Newtonian field of attraction of the sun, and the
SEQ:Uniformly:Relative
REL:System:Another
EVI:Body:independent of the condition of motion of the body of reference.
SEQ:Point:Respect
EVI:Spectral:extra-galactic nebulae (“milky ways”), that the spectral lines emitted
EVI:Practice:Now in practice we can move clocks and measuring-rods only with
EVI:Excels:postulate of relativity excels not only in its beauty; nor in removing
EVI:Required:considerations, the time required by a particular occurrence with
SEQ:Derive:Properties
EVI:Part:Part III: Considerations on the Universe as a Whole
SEQ:Grounds:Extending
SEQ:Radius:Planet
SEQ:Shall:Later
EVI:Basis:On the basis of the general theory of relativity, it is found that the
SEQ:Object:Coincides
EVI:Limiting:plays the part of a limiting velocity, which can neither be reached nor
EVI:Reference:particular time; unless we are told the reference-body to which the
REL:Treatment:These
EVI:Being:the distance between the points being
SEQ:Construct:Lorentz
REL:Variation:Temperature
EVI:Several:We have already stated several times that classical mechanics starts
SEQ:Measured:Little
EVI:Thus:discussed in the preceding section), the man in the chest will thus
SEQ:Involved:Contraction
EVI:Condition:condition of uniform motion of translation. Relative to _K′_ the
SEQ:Does:Allow
EVI:Measurement:the measurement gives a whole number. This difficulty is got over by
EVI:Scientific:general scientific and philosophical point of view, are interested in
SEQ:Within:Cent
EVI:System:IV. The Galileian System of Co-ordinates
EVI:Themselves:themselves clearly until this construction is extended over a
SEQ:Clock:Second
EVI:Light:of light relative to the liquid and the velocity of the latter relative
SEQ:Coordinate:System
EVI:Physics:are thus led also to a definition of “time” in physics. For this
EVI:Spatially:chosen so that they are spatially parallel to those of _K_. It is also
EVI:Determine:determine the length of the pole we should have required in order to
EVI:Clock:which is emitting spectral lines as a clock, so that the following
EVI:Planet:greatest distance of the planet from the sun.
SEQ:Arrangement:Mirrors
SEQ:Minkowski:Without
SEQ:Stone:Then
EVI:Part:of will on the part of the reader. The author has spared himself no
EVI:Opponents:Since it has often been contended by opponents of the theory of
EVI:Simultaneity:simultaneity such that this definition supplies us with the method by
EVI:Beings:beings is two-dimensional; but, like ours, it extends to infinity. In
EVI:Only:distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
EVI:Principle:EXACT FORMULATION OF THE GENERAL PRINCIPLE OF RELATIVITY
SEQ:Approximation:System
EVI:Demands:sense one can say, according to Friedman, that the theory demands an
SEQ:Without:Coming
EVI:Performing:performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
SEQ:Satisfied:Gravitational
CON:Rescued
SEQ:Observed:Eddington
EVI:Circle:independent of the diameter of the circle. On their spherical surface
EVI:Railway:tube plays the part of the railway embankment or of the co-ordinate
EVI:Escape:appearance, practically all of which must nevertheless escape the test
EVI:Express:equations which express the general laws of nature pass over into
EVI:Connection:mentioned in connection with the fundamental experiment of Fizeau. The
EVI:Exactly:We are now in a position to formulate more exactly the idea of
SEQ:Slowly:Than
EVI:Translator:times greater than for the Sun. R.W.L.—translator
CON:Chest
SEQ:Moment:Chest
EVI:Brought:the defect attaching to classical mechanics which was brought to light
EVI:Result:attraction between two masses diminishes more rapidly than would result
EVI:Mode:rather admit that his mode of grasping the situation violates neither
EVI:Provision:unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
CON:Substitute
CON:Term
CON:Phenomenon
EVI:Correspond:Adjacent points correspond to adjacent values of the coordinates. If a
CON:Space
EVI:Empirical:as it were, a purely empirical enterprise.
EVI:Also:are simultaneous _with reference to the railway embankment_ also
SEQ:Must:Exactly
EVI:Forth:as set forth in detail in the first part of this book. For the
EVI:Experience:experience. On this point we are enlightened by a most important
EVI:Reference:motion of the reference-body is of such a nature that it does not
CON:Problems
EVI:Towards:heavenly body would be deviated towards the latter. For a ray of light
EVI:Give:difficulty that electrodynamic theory of itself is unable to give an
CON:Room
SEQ:Respect:Ordinate
EVI:Space:MINKOWSKI’S FOUR-DIMENSIONAL SPACE
SEQ:Events:Then
EVI:Donations:charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
SEQ:Stimulus:Advances
EVI:Rods:and of the little rods, about which I can only be thankfully surprised.
EVI:Loose:distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
SEQ:Ellipse:Rotates
SEQ:Rest:Relative
EVI:Find:we are then able to find how this known natural process appears, as
EVI:Conclude:_K′_). From this we conclude, _that, in general, rays of light are
EVI:Reason:conscientious teachers. By reason of our past experience, you would
EVI:System:This system of equations is known as the “Lorentz transformation.”[9]
EVI:Such:coordinates) as the continuum has dimensions. This is done in such a
SEQ:Body:Gravitation
EVI:More:We are now in a position to formulate more exactly the idea of
EVI:Received:lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
SEQ:Professor:Michael
EVI:Systematic:gravitation. In point of fact, the systematic pursuit of the general
EVI:Should:of the planet. Theory requires that this rotation should amount to 43
SEQ:Number:Tells
EVI:Appendix:[22] First observed by Eddington and others in 1919. (Cf. Appendix
SEQ:When:Magnitudes
SEQ:Freewill:Order
CON:Grave
SEQ:Body:Description
CON:Throughout
SEQ:Continuum:Also
SEQ:Decreases:Zero
EVI:Incongruity:known how this incongruity is to be overcome.
EVI:Axioms:the axioms. The question of “truth” of the individual geometrical
SEQ:Defects:Such
CON:Dare
SEQ:View:Harmony
SEQ:Field:Least
EVI:Have:following pages, would perhaps have got no farther than its long
EVI:Each:I am standing in front of a gas range. Standing alongside of each other
EVI:Case:circular disc. Thus on our circular disc, or, to make the case more
CON:Gone
EVI:Used:formulation. The form there used, “All bodies of reference _K, K′_,
EVI:Demands:following demands:
SEQ:Exporting:Copy
SEQ:Theory:Special
EVI:These:table. These we designate as _u_-curves, and we indicate each of them
SEQ:Particular:Flat
SEQ:Same:Difficulty
EVI:According:of attraction into the calculation, we find that, according to this new
SEQ:Provided:State
EVI:Light:which the law of the constancy of the velocity of light in vacuo is a
EVI:Medium:electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
SEQ:Euclidean:Continua
EVI:Expand:rods on the central region of the table expand, whereas those on the
EVI:Using:distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
EVI:Give:order to give due prominence to this relationship, however, we must
EVI:Latter:colour of the light reaching us from them. The latter effect manifests
EVI:Taken:train. An event, wherever it may have taken place, would be fixed in
EVI:Universe:surface by means of a square made up of measuring-rods. If the universe
EVI:Relativity:the basis of the general principle of relativity he is justified in
SEQ:Emitting:Spectral
SEQ:Distance:Involving
EVI:Dimensional:four-dimensional “world.”
REL:Velocity:Translation
SEQ:What:General
SEQ:Origin:Moving
EVI:Theory:SPECIAL THEORY OF RELATIVITY UNSATISFACTORY?
SEQ:Field:Derived
SEQ:Value:Selected
EVI:Part:the part of the continuum under our notice.
EVI:Enters:number of lines of force which enters the sphere is thus proportional
SEQ:Compliance:Send
SEQ:Work:Considered
EVI:Rotating:(non-rotating) system _K_ as reference-body, since we may only assume
CON:Resembling
EVI:Mercury:Mercury it must amount to 43 seconds of arc per century, a result which
EVI:Example:our example of the railway carriage supposed to be travelling
CON:Ellipsoid
EVI:Mode:of reference, without suffering from the defects of the latter mode of
CON:Classified
EVI:Theory:RELATIVITY: THE SPECIAL AND GENERAL THEORY
EVI:Obtained:be obtained without caprice, however, by taking into consideration the
SEQ:Themselves:Must
EVI:Laws:laws appeared to be quite independent of each other. By means of the
SEQ:Respect:Time
EVI:Given:be given relative to the train in exactly the same way as with respect
EVI:Itself:space” is in itself improbable.
EVI:Body:itself as reference-body (co-ordinate system). An observer in the train
SEQ:Disc:Thus
EVI:Copy:so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
SEQ:Grasping:Situation
SEQ:Simplicity:Since
EVI:Considerations:If the reader has followed all our previous considerations, he will
SEQ:Attached:Full
SEQ:Universe:Cannot
EVI:Reference:there exists a reference-body _K_, whose condition of motion is such
EVI:Means:with the radius _R_ of the “world-sphere.” By means of this relation
EVI:Positions:positions (possessing names) on the rigid body of reference. In the
EVI:Physicist:experiment which the brilliant physicist Fizeau performed more than
CON:Velocities
EVI:Time:the time, which led us to our objective in the special theory of
EVI:Treating:to the method of Riemann of treating multi-dimensional, non-Euclidean
EVI:Money:• You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
SEQ:Words:World
SEQ:Until:Possibility
EVI:Alone:outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.
EVI:Modification:at the cost of a modification and complication of Newton’s law which
SEQ:Associated:Phrase
EVI:Disc:sitting eccentrically on the disc _K′_ is sensible of a force which
EVI:Electronic:used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
CON:Styled
EVI:Problem:indicated in the diagram (Fig. 2), this problem is solved by means of
EVI:Surface:considerable portion of the surface of the table.
SEQ:Empirical:Theoretical
SEQ:Values:Area
EVI:Space:space-time variables _x, y, z, t_ of the original coordinate system
EVI:Sets:Geometry sets out from certain conceptions such as “plane,” “point,”
SEQ:Place:Specification
SEQ:Appear:Likely
EVI:Distributed:freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
EVI:Those:reference to those fixed stars are found to be in accord with
EVI:Train:be given relative to the train in exactly the same way as with respect
CON:Experienced
EVI:Below:paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
EVI:Imposed:in the comprehensive limitation which is imposed on the laws of nature
EVI:Departs:in its individual parts, but which nowhere departs appreciably from a
EVI:Euclidean:description; it is not tied down to the Euclidean character of the
SEQ:Here:Corresponds
CON:Pages
EVI:Consideration:assumption, which, in the light of a strict consideration, appears to
SEQ:While:Cannot
EVI:Nevertheless:Nevertheless we must now draw attention to the fact that a theory of
EVI:Relativity:THE SPACE-TIME CONTINUUM OF THE GENERAL THEORY OF RELATIVITY IS NOT A
SEQ:Analogous:Manner
EVI:Particular:particular time; unless we are told the reference-body to which the
SEQ:Function:Straight
REL:Care:Choose
SEQ:Instance:Continuum
EVI:Light:law of the propagation of light _in vacuo_) have exactly the same form
EVI:Through:is projected through a gravitational field. As a result of this theory,
SEQ:Such:Case
SEQ:Steam:Being
CON:Determining
EVI:Previous:previous section the answer is self-evident. In the first place we
SEQ:Modification:Affects
EVI:Interesting:equivalent. As a result of this discussion, a most interesting question
EVI:Xiii:Section XIII in connection with the experiment of Fizeau, the result of
SEQ:Many:Rods
SEQ:Revolution:Corresponds
EVI:Only:universe. But it is conceivable that our universe differs only slightly
SEQ:Circle:Comparison
CON:Marxists
EVI:Living:universe, they have no means of determining whether they are living in
EVI:Exempt:state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
EVI:Theory:Before the theory of relativity was put forward, it was difficult to
SEQ:Area:Whole
SEQ:Train:Thought
EVI:Theory:theory of relativity they have been united into one law. We shall now
EVI:Reference:reference-bodies _K_ the law is not valid. Both in classical mechanics
EVI:Along:light plays the part of the man walking along relatively to the
EVI:Agree:Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
EVI:Respect:_x_ and the time _t_, and with respect to the system _K′_ by the
EVI:However:However, already in the ’twenties, the Russian mathematician Friedman
EVI:Line:distance (line-interval), independently of any changes in position to
CON:Following
EVI:Space:V. Relativity and the Problem of Space
SEQ:Hold:Than
SEQ:Body:Regards
SEQ:Lines:Definitely
EVI:Relativity:V. The Principle of Relativity (in the Restricted Sense)
SEQ:Accented:Magnitudes
SEQ:Motion:Contracted
CON:Calculations
EVI:Slowly:exceedingly slowly in the plane of the orbit and in the sense of the
EVI:Widest:freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
EVI:License:of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online
SEQ:Everywhere:Attenuated
SEQ:Mean:Here
SEQ:Terminate:Mass
SEQ:Provided:Small
EVI:Only:way, that only one meaning can be attached to the assignment, and that
EVI:Relative:although the carriage changes its position relative to the embankment
SEQ:Returns:Royalty
EVI:Being:nevertheless regard the chest as being at rest. We have thus good
SEQ:Still:Uniform
EVI:Motion:motion here taking place in the following two forms, both of which are
EVI:Same:ellipse rotates round the sun in the same sense as the orbital motion
EVI:Manner:are able to see the manner in which a refinement of the conception of
EVI:Some:After thinking the matter over for some time you then offer the
SEQ:Respect:Then
CON:Calculation
SEQ:Determined:Applying
EVI:However:Up to the present, however, we have by no means maintained the
SEQ:Considerations:Only
EVI:Relativity:undergone by the fundamental idea of the general theory of relativity
EVI:Robert:Credits: Robert Hux
EVI:Introduction:to the introduction of a more comprehensive theory, in which it lives
SEQ:Apply:Consideration
SEQ:Section:Attempts
EVI:Carriage:[8] _e.g._ the middle of the first and of the hundredth carriage.
EVI:Considered:considered, and for this reason it would appear to be impossible that
SEQ:Number:Contributions
SEQ:Statement:Motion
EVI:Opposite:particularly St. John, have been led to the opposite opinion in
EVI:Strongly:time the atmosphere is so strongly illuminated by the light from the
EVI:Small:(“world”), even when only a relatively small part of their worldsphere
SEQ:Cannot:Added
SEQ:Rods:About
SEQ:Predicted:Theory
EVI:Trafalgar:life. If I analyse the place specification “Trafalgar Square,
EVI:Only:rays required by the general theory of relativity is only exceedingly
EVI:Kind:refer such a domain to a reference-body _K′_ possessing any kind of
EVI:Radius:increasing values of the radius. During this process the area of the
EVI:Requirements:have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
EVI:Whom:whom we will imagine sitting alongside his clock at the centre of the
EVI:Theory:thought a _theory_. The theory finds the justification for its
EVI:Larger:seconds, _i.e._ a somewhat larger time. As a consequence of its motion
SEQ:Some:States
SEQ:Directions:Call
EVI:Usual:replace the usual time co-ordinate t by an imaginary magnitude
SEQ:Corporation:Organized
REL:Number:Individual
SEQ:Number:Lines
EVI:Supplemented:can imagine this reference-body supplemented laterally and in a
SEQ:Immaterial:Whether
CON:Himself
SEQ:Stone:Produces
EVI:Transformation:clearly follows from the equations of the Lorentz transformation, for
EVI:Theory:Since it has often been contended by opponents of the theory of
SEQ:Answer:Seems
EVI:Size:to the defined “size” or “distance,” small parts of the continuum under
EVI:Positions:in all positions and in every orientation. Hence the idea of a straight
EVI:Equation:Since equation (8_a_) must hold for points on the _x_-axis, we thus
CON:Auxiliary
SEQ:Disdain:Should
EVI:Rate:clock per unit time (“rate” of the clock) relative to _K_ when the
SEQ:Time:Physics
EVI:Principle:V. The Principle of Relativity (in the Restricted Sense)
EVI:Small:measured with a little rod, by means of the very small number _ds_.
EVI:Curve:existing trajectory (lit. “path-curve”[6], but only a trajectory
EVI:Spared:of will on the part of the reader. The author has spared himself no
EVI:Whatsoever:whole not only moving in any way whatsoever, but which also suffer
EVI:Should:Planets of our solar system its magnitude should be so small that it
EVI:Fields:lead directly to those of the former for the case in which the fields
EVI:Addition:XIII. Theorem of the Addition of Velocities. The Experiment of Fizeau
SEQ:Obvious:Ensure
SEQ:Motion:Relative
SEQ:What:Mean
EVI:Singular:strike you as being very singular, and for that reason I shall now draw
EVI:Space:SPACE AND TIME IN CLASSICAL MECHANICS
EVI:Ensure:sufficiently obvious to ensure that differences of opinion are
SEQ:Idea:Mathematical
SEQ:Strives:After
EVI:States:reference-bodies (or their states of motion) are given priority over
EVI:Continuously:neither case, and if I observe that the one continuously emits steam
SEQ:Justified:Asking
EVI:Definition:are always simultaneous (in the sense of the above definition).
EVI:Section:are now no longer tenable. In that section we concluded that the man in
SEQ:Themselves:Every
EVI:Claimed:clearly of all, and because of this objection he claimed that mechanics
EVI:Star:simultaneously for different colours during the eclipse of a fixed star
CON:Permanent
CON:Field
EVI:Moment:puzzled for a moment as to why the chest does not fall in this
SEQ:Theoretical:Operations
EVI:Xviii:XVIII. Special and General Principle of Relativity
SEQ:Acknowledge:Cannot
SEQ:Untenable:Other
REL:Strictly:Agreement
REL:According:Friedman
CON:Third
EVI:Doing:yet it does not rotate in so doing). Let us imagine a raven flying
SEQ:Owing:Alteration
EVI:Rails:carriage as reference-body as when the rails are the body of reference.
EVI:Just:gravitational field. just then, however, he discovers the hook in the
EVI:Colours:simultaneously for different colours during the eclipse of a fixed star
SEQ:Times:Lengths
EVI:Considerations:By means of comparatively simple considerations we are led to draw the
SEQ:Propositions:Interpreted
EVI:Correctly:correctly, but also the field of force experienced by himself.
SEQ:Then:System
EVI:Format:to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
REL:Pair:Events
EVI:Time:the present time (1920; see[Note], p. 48), owing to the fact that the
SEQ:Experimental:Arguments
EVI:Gravitational:theoretically the influence of a gravitational field on the course of
EVI:Order:order to give due prominence to this relationship, however, we must
REL:Sets:Numbers
SEQ:Have:Dimensional
EVI:Physicists:physicists were devoted to attempts to detect the existence of an
EVI:Improbable:space” is in itself improbable.
EVI:Flashes:assertion that these two lightning flashes occurred simultaneously. If
EVI:Adjacent:Adjacent points correspond to adjacent values of the coordinates. If a
SEQ:Less:Refrangible
CON:Constrained
EVI:Energy:[11] _E_0 is the energy taken up, as judged from a co-ordinate system
EVI:Methuen:Publisher: Methuen & Co Ltd
SEQ:Ordinates:Every
EVI:Neighbouring:“size-relations” (“distances” between neighbouring points) are defined.
EVI:Measure:distance without our proceeding being in the highest measure grossly
SEQ:Accustomed:Regard
EVI:Infinite:in which we live is infinite, or whether it is finite in the manner of
EVI:System:corresponds to the embankment, and a co-ordinate system _K′_ to the
EVI:Variably:the variably heated marble slab, and if we had no other means of
EVI:Only:point on the non-rigid reference-body. These clocks satisfy only the
SEQ:Connection:These
SEQ:Http:Marxists
CON:Answered
SEQ:Velocity:Examining
EVI:Basis:On the basis of the physical interpretation of distance which has been
SEQ:Domains:Gravitational
EVI:Only:a few seconds only.
EVI:Gaussian:But the Gaussian method can be applied also to a continuum of three,
SEQ:Geometry:Rods
EVI:Gross:• You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
EVI:Relativity:To what extent is the special theory of relativity supported by
EVI:Discussion:followed the preceding discussion are almost sure to expect that we
CON:Right
EVI:Referred:referred. The resulting relationship takes for granted that the laws of
EVI:Mechanical:mechanical laws of Galilei-Newton hold good exactly as they do with
SEQ:Following:Incidental
SEQ:Long:Ensure
EVI:True:because by the word “true” we are eventually in the habit of
EVI:Analogous:out the analogous consideration for a ray of light. With respect to the
CON:Becoming
REL:Continue:Move
CON:Experience
EVI:Space:(Galileian) reference-body _K_ by the space-time variables _x′, y′, z′,
EVI:Anywhere:This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
SEQ:Rest:Points
EVI:Another:another, shall indicate position and time directly. Such was the
EVI:Universe:nature of the universe as a whole, if we treat the matter as being at
EVI:Intellectual:and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
EVI:Laws:the same mechanical laws hold relatively to the non-uniformly moving
EVI:Fields:electric fields can be derived correctly from electrostatic
EVI:Electrodynamical:the theory of relativity. This theory was of a purely electrodynamical
EVI:Bodies:solid bodies. In every such framework we imagine three surfaces
SEQ:Rotary:Respect
EVI:Rays:with respect to be embankment, we mean: the rays of light emitted at
EVI:Time:law for the space-time magnitudes of an event when changing over from
SEQ:Knowledge:Played
SEQ:Effects:Gravitation
EVI:View:hardly be doubted from a theoretical point of view), leads to an origin
EVI:Time:If we desire to adhere to our “old-time” three-dimensional view of
SEQ:More:Probable
SEQ:Found:Above
SEQ:Relative:Same
EVI:Variables:substitutions_ of the Gauss variables _x_1, _x_2, _x_3, _x_4, the
EVI:Light:of light _in vacuo_ is satisfied both for the reference-body _K_ and
SEQ:System:Take
SEQ:Section:Becomes
EVI:General:propositions, then at a later stage (in the general theory of
EVI:Existence:space, physics becomes, as it were, an “existence” in the
EVI:Even:INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
EVI:Project:1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
CON:Maxwell
SEQ:Friedman:Theory
SEQ:Arrangement:Such
SEQ:Find:Ratio
EVI:Seconds:seconds, _i.e._ a somewhat larger time. As a consequence of its motion
EVI:Calculated:the calculated deviations of the stars (in seconds of arc) are set
SEQ:Curvilinear:Motion
SEQ:Observers:Take
REL:Place:Straight
EVI:Come:necessary until we come to deal with the general theory of relativity,
EVI:Velocity:relative to _K_ with a velocity _v_, but at rest with respect to the
EVI:Latter:of light relative to the liquid and the velocity of the latter relative
SEQ:Time:Equal
EVI:Draw:We must draw attention here to one of these deviations. According to
EVI:Agree:electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
SEQ:Other:Back
EVI:Thus:are thus led also to a definition of “time” in physics. For this
EVI:Case:If we confine the application of the theory to the case where the
EVI:Permanently:motion continue permanently in uniform rectilinear motion. As
EVI:Copyright:posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
SEQ:Chest:Thus
EVI:Theory:It may be added that, according to the theory, half of this deflection
EVI:Next:[26] Especially since the next planet Venus has an orbit that is
EVI:Star:earth. But as a consequence of the deflection of light from the star by
EVI:Extending:grounds for extending the principle of relativity to include bodies of
REL:Transmission:Light
EVI:General:According to the general theory of relativity, the geometrical
CON:Jumps
EVI:Contrary:universe cannot be quasi-Euclidean. On the contrary, the results of
EVI:Have:law of the propagation of light _in vacuo_ would then have to be
EVI:Intermediate:the iron through the intermediate empty space, but we are constrained
SEQ:Slightest:Impact
EVI:Word:any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
EVI:General:general principle of relativity. But in what follows we shall soon see
EVI:Making:first principles, without making use of the fact that the surface
EVI:What:what way this result becomes modified in the general theory of
SEQ:Regard:Process
EVI:Meaning:meaning. We cannot ask whether it is true that only one straight line
SEQ:Additions:Deletions
EVI:Order:rotating uniformly with respect to _K_. In order to fix our ideas, we
SEQ:Compared:Velocity
EVI:Principle:principle according to the method which has already been explained for
EVI:License:same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
EVI:Behave:consideration behave more nearly like a Euclidean system, the smaller
SEQ:Ways:Spectral
EVI:Paper:necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
SEQ:Instance:Magnet
SEQ:Same:Sense
EVI:Things:things, then we can characterise the development which is being
CON:Designating
EVI:Only:1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
EVI:Freely:measuring-rods, clocks and freely moving material points.
EVI:Must:But from what has been said, the two snapshots must be identical; hence
EVI:Found:In point of fact, astronomers have found that the theory of Newton does
SEQ:Extent:Permitted
SEQ:Earth:Modern
SEQ:Process:Impossible
SEQ:Believes:General
CON:Consists
EVI:Rope:reference-body which is not being pulled with a rope.
CON:Convert
EVI:Following:its result. The experiment is concerned with the following question.
EVI:Time:since this time.
EVI:Here:the clock goes more slowly than when at rest. Here also the velocity
CON:Entirety
EVI:Observer:with the observer then begin to move “upwards” with a uniformly
SEQ:Compared:Apparent
SEQ:Matter:Also
SEQ:These:Laws
SEQ:Same:Form
EVI:Justified:justified on the grounds of experience in supposing his reference-body
SEQ:Relativity:Therefore
EVI:Simple:[9] A simple derivation of the Lorentz transformation is given in
SEQ:Relative:Earth
EVI:Imagine:belongs to a Euclidean continuum of three dimensions. If we imagine
SEQ:Means:Maintained
SEQ:Facility:Gutenberg
SEQ:Reason:Possible
SEQ:Starting:Point
SEQ:Still:Brought
EVI:Regarded:are regarded in an analogous manner.
EVI:Essentially:co-ordinate systems are essentially equivalent for the formulation of
REL:Effects:Gravitation
CON:Invalidity
EVI:Euclidean:the marble slab constitute a Euclidean continuum with respect to the
EVI:Hypothetical:theory of relativity, but only after a hypothetical term was added to
EVI:Proofread:effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
SEQ:Obtain:Result
EVI:Reader:The reader may think that such a description of the world would be
CON:Designate
SEQ:Standpoint:Observer
SEQ:Complicated:Conformable
SEQ:Circle:Immense
EVI:Surface:the surface. These satisfy the same conditions as the _u_-curves, they
EVI:Coincidence:the space-time coincidence of two events _A_ and _B_. In terms of
EVI:After:After thinking the matter over for some time you then offer the
EVI:Without:first principles, without making use of the fact that the surface
EVI:States:1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
EVI:Follows:classical mechanics; these are as follows:
EVI:Have:dissatisfied until I have discovered some circumstance to which I can
EVI:Systems:co-ordinate systems are essentially equivalent for the formulation of
SEQ:Stated:Follows
SEQ:These:Sins
SEQ:Ordinate:Values
SEQ:Principles:Newton
EVI:Absent:gravitational field is absent. But the most attractive problem, to the
EVI:Classical:SPACE AND TIME IN CLASSICAL MECHANICS
SEQ:Somewhat:Different
EVI:Energy:the process, has, as a consequence, its energy increased by an amount
SEQ:Perihelial:Movement
SEQ:Fizeau:Found
EVI:Thus:_differences_, and thus also for co-ordinate differentials
SEQ:Continuum:Have
EVI:Simultaneous:Events which are simultaneous with reference to the embankment are not
EVI:Official:and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact
SEQ:Means:Certain
SEQ:View:Then
SEQ:Only:Decide
EVI:Considered:different behaviour of bodies considered with respect to the reference
SEQ:Point:What
CON:Also
EVI:Direct:co-ordinates which allowed of a simple and direct physical
REL:Postulate:General
SEQ:Minimum:Emission
SEQ:Contended:Walking
EVI:States:United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
EVI:Velocities:THEOREM OF THE ADDITION OF VELOCITIES. THE EXPERIMENT OF FIZEAU
SEQ:Being:Small
EVI:Assertion:assertion that these two lightning flashes occurred simultaneously. If
EVI:Grounds:grounds for extending the principle of relativity to include bodies of
SEQ:Disc:Velocity
REL:Matter:Fact
EVI:Xviii:of Section XVIII. It is certainly true that the observer in the railway
EVI:Rays:deflection of these rays under the influence of electric and magnetic
SEQ:Latter:Clock
EVI:Four:MINKOWSKI’S FOUR-DIMENSIONAL SPACE (“WORLD”)
EVI:Provisional:We are now in a position to replace the provisional formulation of the
SEQ:Light:Always
EVI:Reader:no pretence of having withheld from the reader difficulties which are
CON:Generations
CON:Suffice
SEQ:Means:Embraces
EVI:Gravitation:Now φ = – _K (M/r)_, where _K_ is Newton’s constant of gravitation, and
EVI:Described:described by four numbers, namely, three space co-ordinates _x, y, z_,
EVI:Does:gravitational field receive an acceleration, _which does not in the
SEQ:Definition:Simultaneity
EVI:Embankment:corresponds to the embankment, and a co-ordinate system _K′_ to the
EVI:Behaviour:THE BEHAVIOUR OF MEASURING-RODS AND CLOCKS IN MOTION
SEQ:Most:Excellent
EVI:Traverses:carriage, traverses the same distance also with respect to the
EVI:Lorentz:Now assuming that the Maxwell-Lorentz equations hold for a
SEQ:Observer:Sitting
SEQ:Event:Coincides
EVI:Formula:represented by formula (B) to within one per cent.
EVI:Motion:priori;_ it is not contained in the conceptions of “motion” and
REL:Force:Order
EVI:Latter:that the latter clock goes at a rate permanently slower than that of
SEQ:Whole:Spherical
SEQ:Absolute:Physical
SEQ:Length:Examination
SEQ:Deductions:General
EVI:Each:sense. For it is composed of individual events, each of which is
EVI:Such:in such a case, but I do not wish to go any farther into this question.
SEQ:Other:Than
EVI:Answering:permits of our answering it with a moderate degree of certainty, and in
EVI:System:the change in the energy of the body. The inertial mass of a system of
SEQ:Numbers:Corresponding
SEQ:Have:Disproved
EVI:Customary:absolute angular measure customary in physics, and the above expression
EVI:Relativity:EXACT FORMULATION OF THE GENERAL PRINCIPLE OF RELATIVITY
EVI:Known:and _b_ were known. These result from the following discussion.
SEQ:Lines:Continuum
SEQ:Words:Going
SEQ:Compressed:Marked
EVI:Towards:_M_ is the mass of the heavenly body. Thus a displacement towards the
EVI:Condition:transmitted along the negative _x_-axis, we obtain the condition
EVI:Large:system of stars in the large—as required, according to Friedman, by the
SEQ:Consideration:Borrowed
EVI:Reference:of light _in vacuo_ is satisfied both for the reference-body _K_ and
SEQ:Constant:Throughout
EVI:Experience:general theory of relativity, a ray of light will experience a
EVI:Stars:for a suitably chosen co-ordinate system, the velocities of the stars
SEQ:Indemnity:Agree
SEQ:Synonymous:Free
SEQ:Light:Advancing
EVI:Radiation:the form of radiation without suffering an alteration in velocity in
SEQ:Each:These
CON:Should
EVI:Point:end (the beginning) coincides with the point _x′_ = 0 whilst the other
SEQ:Then:Obtain
EVI:Point:But this point of view by no means embraces the whole of the actual
EVI:General:transformation. Or in brief: General laws of nature are co-variant with
EVI:Example:In the example of the transmission of light just dealt with, we have
EVI:Universe:infinite region of emptiness. The stellar universe ought to be a finite
EVI:Rope:middle of the lid of the chest and the rope which is attached to it,
EVI:Equal:bodies. By a suitable choice of units we can thus make this ratio equal
EVI:Points:values of these two points at the time _t_ = 0 can be shown to be
SEQ:Completely:Replaces
SEQ:After:Some
EVI:Therefore:and in the special theory of relativity we therefore differentiate
SEQ:Very:Long
EVI:Inherited:discussed. The inherited prejudices about time and space did not allow
SEQ:World:Relative
EVI:Have:of the rod as judged from _K′_ would have been
CON:Rods
CON:Hubble
SEQ:Interpretation:Obtained
SEQ:Rules:Geometry
EVI:Section:of relativity (Section VII) has been derived by means of a
EVI:Owner:Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
EVI:Suspended:and he consequently comes to the conclusion that the chest is suspended
EVI:Physical:to any physical theory, than that it should of itself point out the way
SEQ:Difference:Fundamental
EVI:Avail:no avail in the general theory of relativity. The motion of clocks is
EVI:Origin:hardly be doubted from a theoretical point of view), leads to an origin
SEQ:Reference:Must
SEQ:Latter:Continuum
SEQ:Carriage:Compelled
EVI:Physics:rigid rods, but by indirect means. If the results of physics and
EVI:Text:Transcription to text: Gregory B. Newby
EVI:Considered:If, on the contrary, we had considered a metre-rod at rest in the
SEQ:Based:Work
SEQ:Relative:Other
EVI:Concept:concept “true” does not tally with the assertions of pure geometry,
CON:Depend
SEQ:Following:Statements
EVI:Negatively:_i.e._ the work, considered negatively, which must be performed on the
EVI:Bodies:In gravitational fields there are no such things as rigid bodies with
SEQ:Available:Province
EVI:Half:the other. Both are half full of water. I notice that steam is being
CON:Surprised
SEQ:Referred:Particular
CON:Diameter
EVI:Discovered:dissatisfied until I have discovered some circumstance to which I can
SEQ:Square:Made
SEQ:System:Order
EVI:Regarded:the continuum under consideration may be regarded as Euclidean
SEQ:File:Online
EVI:Without:innumerable laws which would serve the same purpose, without our being
SEQ:Detach:Remove
SEQ:Before:Come
EVI:Enter:any moment would enter into the laws of nature, and also that physical
CON:Intelligible
EVI:Where:the places _A_ and _B_, where the lightning occurs, meet each other at
SEQ:Drawing:Hypotheses
EVI:Proportional:“expand” by in amount proportional to the increase of temperature. We
CON:Other
EVI:Cobbler:of elegance ought to be left to the tailor and to the cobbler. I make
SEQ:Fundamentally:Method
EVI:Laid:these squares until finally the whole marble slab is laid out with
EVI:Suffering:of reference, without suffering from the defects of the latter mode of
SEQ:License:Especially
EVI:Until:necessary until we come to deal with the general theory of relativity,
EVI:Impossible:But, from our above consideration, this would appear to be impossible.
SEQ:Dependent:Existence
SEQ:Always:Correspond
EVI:Uniform:condition of uniform motion of translation. Relative to _K′_ the
EVI:Ordinate:_K′_. For the relative orientation in space of the co-ordinate systems
EVI:Last:of co-ordinates. We see this expressed in the last equation of the
SEQ:Surface:Describing
EVI:Disc:the clock at the centre of the circular disc, _i.e._ as observed from
SEQ:Shown:Fourth
EVI:Should:then we should be faced with the task of testing whether or not this
SEQ:Mean:Perform
EVI:Relative:bodies which are at rest relative to the disc, he regards as the effect
CON:Contact
SEQ:Certainly:True
EVI:Derived:correct (“true”) when it has been derived in the recognised manner from
SEQ:Argument:Convincing
SEQ:Must:Also
EVI:Become:nature. Such a finite material universe would be destined to become
EVI:Under:for what follows. Bodies which are moving under the sole influence of a
REL:Events:Reference
SEQ:Along:Negative
EVI:Simplicity:elliptical) excels in its simplicity, since all points on it are
EVI:Carriage:In (_a_) the embankment, in (_b_) the carriage, serves as the body of
EVI:More:once more analyse its meaning carefully.
EVI:Notice:_possibly_ it may do so. If, however, I notice the bluish something in
EVI:Just:would reach him simultaneously, _i.e._ they would meet just where he is
EVI:Possible:Apart from this one, it has hitherto been possible to make only two
SEQ:Accustomed:Further
CON:Expansive
EVI:Three:three numbers (co-ordinates) _x, y, z_, and that there is an indefinite
SEQ:Measuring:Instead
EVI:Royalties:royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
SEQ:Answered:Reason
EVI:Transformation:Galilei transformation or the Lorentz transformation corresponds to the
EVI:Relativity:reference-bodies. The validity of the principle of relativity was
SEQ:Expenses:Including
SEQ:Require:Definition
SEQ:Every:Child
EVI:Attempt:this. For if they attempt to realise a straight line, they will obtain
EVI:Relativity:physics which is conformable to the general principle of relativity,
SEQ:Following:Mass
CON:Clearly
EVI:Along:along the rails with a constant velocity _v_, and that a man traverses
SEQ:Situated:Another
SEQ:Have:Means
CON:Justification
EVI:Gives:The use of the C.G.S. system in this equation gives 2/k = 1.08 x 1027;
SEQ:Bodies:Valid
SEQ:General:Terms
SEQ:General:Sense
EVI:Together:together with the earth moves non-uniformly in such a manner that their
EVI:Equality:the equality of inertial and gravitational mass. Thus we have obtained
SEQ:Next:Should
SEQ:Incompatibility:Propagation
REL:Works:Your
EVI:Same:exactly the same manner in a gravitational field (_in vacuo_), when
EVI:Reference:equivalence of _all_ bodies of reference _K_ in connection with the
SEQ:Surface:Choice
EVI:Amount:the process, has, as a consequence, its energy increased by an amount
EVI:Surrounding:produces in its surrounding a gravitational field, which acts on the
REL:Infinity:Terminate
EVI:Identical:But from what has been said, the two snapshots must be identical; hence
EVI:Motion:uniformly. We call its motion a uniform translation (“uniform” because
EVI:Equations:the equations:
SEQ:About:What
EVI:Inertial:where the “inertial mass” is a characteristic constant of the
EVI:Laws:that above with the marble slab), we should find that different laws
EVI:Square:attracting material points is inversely proportional to the square of
EVI:Trustworthy:amounts to about two millionths of the wave-length. A trustworthy
SEQ:Many:Events
EVI:Theory:electrodynamics of Maxwell-Lorentz, on which the original theory was
EVI:Ordinates:co-ordinates are generally not available; furthermore, the magnitudes
SEQ:Liquid:Above
EVI:Reference:for the reference-body _K′_. A light-signal is sent along the positive
EVI:Collection:Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
SEQ:Than:Since
EVI:Required:required distance.
EVI:During:alterations in form _ad lib._ during their motion. Clocks, for which
EVI:Direction:direction according to the theory of relativity. The question now
CON:Centrifugal
EVI:Derivative:of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
EVI:Strict:fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
EVI:Relativity:Now before the advent of the theory of relativity it had always tacitly
SEQ:Reference:Similar
EVI:Being:that is capable of being obtained by the delicacy of observation
SEQ:Manner:Positions
CON:Thoroughly
EVI:Light:velocity of light _c_ (in vacuum) is justifiably believed by the child
EVI:Chosen:that there was no such field for the co-ordinate system first chosen.
EVI:Rotating:XXIII. Behaviour of Clocks and Measuring-Rods on a Rotating Body of Reference
EVI:University:corresponding to that of a university matriculation examination, and,
EVI:Astonished:under the first pan but not under the other, I cease to be astonished,
SEQ:Trademark:Other
SEQ:Equation:Time
EVI:Radioactive:radioactive substances consist of negatively electrified particles
EVI:Extent:following section we shall show to what extent this is actually the
EVI:Slab:of the marble slab. When I say they are of equal length, I mean that
SEQ:Such:Domain
SEQ:Amount:Corresponding
EVI:Only:only says something about the motion of the bodies, but it also
REL:Velocities:Matter
SEQ:Goals:Ensuring
REL:Inclined:Accept
EVI:Mathematical:statements about their encounters. In our mathematical treatment, such
EVI:Works:of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
EVI:Subtracting:By adding (or subtracting) equations (3) and (4), and introducing for
EVI:Equal:equal to a constant _c_. By uniting these two postulates we obtained
EVI:Line:and “straight line,” with which we are able to associate more or less
EVI:Real:simultaneity, namely, that in every real case it must supply us with an
CON:Quite
SEQ:Results:Physical
SEQ:Time:Fill
SEQ:Excels:Simplicity
CON:Vicinity
EVI:Since:Since the same light-signal has to be transmitted relative to _K′_ with
CON:First
EVI:Formula:view, then the following formula holds:
CON:Perpendiculars
CON:Inherited
SEQ:Author:Albert
CON:Clear
CON:Owing
CON:Recorded
SEQ:Something:Cause
EVI:Exactly:law of the propagation of light _in vacuo_) have exactly the same form
EVI:Mass:the change in the energy of the body. The inertial mass of a system of
SEQ:Have:Places
EVI:Transformation:transformation, this simple relation between _x_ and _t_ involves a
EVI:Those:propagation of light _in vacuo_. Those of you who have carefully
SEQ:Events:Strokes
EVI:Stars:formulated—a law which not only explains the motion of the stars
EVI:Basis:a complete place specification. On the basis of this illustration, we
SEQ:Light:Satisfied
EVI:Project:*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK RELATIVITY: THE SPECIAL AND GENERAL THEORY ***
EVI:Such:motion of the reference-body is of such a nature that it does not
CON:Occurs
SEQ:Some:Consideration
CON:Singular
SEQ:Physical:Equivalence
EVI:Relativity:to the theory of relativity, the “time” _x_4, enters into natural laws
EVI:Spherical:three-dimensional spherical space is quite analogous to the
EVI:Case:in such a case, but I do not wish to go any farther into this question.
EVI:Natural:should be constrained to believe that natural laws are capable of being
REL:Require:Determine
EVI:Supply:supply us with the same result as the first. Thus the length of the
EVI:Manner:“world” in a formal manner as a four-dimensional Euclidean space (with
SEQ:Consideration:Thus
EVI:Interfere:continually interfere with each other, owing to the impenetrability of
EVI:Definition:me—and rightly so—and you declare: “I maintain my previous definition
SEQ:According:Also
EVI:Electrodynamics:of each other, on which electrodynamics was built.
REL:Meaning:Geometrical
EVI:Galileian:If _K_ is a Galileian co-ordinate system. then every other co-ordinate
EVI:Holder:posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
SEQ:Shortness:Book
EVI:These:These inadequate remarks can give the reader only a vague notion of the
SEQ:Known:Special
CON:Specification
EVI:Extent:An elliptical universe can thus be considered to some extent as a
CON:Better
SEQ:Visually:Observe
SEQ:Mechanics:First
EVI:Galileian:Galileian transformation (_t′_ = _t_).
EVI:System:of this corner with reference to the “Cartesian co-ordinate system”
EVI:Waves:transmission of electromagnetic waves. The effects of gravitation also
EVI:Considerations:the universe only if we base our considerations on the state of the
SEQ:Generalisation:Found
EVI:Then:Then every event which takes place along the line also takes place at a
SEQ:Sole:Influence
SEQ:Them:Only
EVI:What:IN WHAT RESPECTS ARE THE FOUNDATIONS OF CLASSICAL MECHANICS AND OF THE
EVI:Whether:meaning. We cannot ask whether it is true that only one straight line
SEQ:Continuum:Four
EVI:Theory:THE EXPERIMENTAL CONFIRMATION OF THE GENERAL THEORY OF RELATIVITY
CON:Agency
EVI:Length:if he does not wish to be laid out full length on the floor. He is then
EVI:What:It is not clear what is to be understood here by “position” and
EVI:Replace:reference-bodies. If we replace _x, y, z_,
EVI:Only:considerations only for the case, which is never strictly realised, in
EVI:Paragraph:or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.
EVI:Finite:a finite or in an infinite universe, because the “piece of universe” to
SEQ:Email:Contact
SEQ:Energy:Writing
EVI:Energy:energy and the law of the conservation of mass these two fundamental
CON:Requirement
EVI:Tally:concept “true” does not tally with the assertions of pure geometry,
EVI:Foundation:Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
EVI:Meaning:I. Physical Meaning of Geometrical Propositions
SEQ:Only:Demand
EVI:Jumps:and by “jumps” (if he is not too pedantic). We express this property of
SEQ:Measurement:Gives
EVI:Standard:measured with the standard measuring-rod, combined with the
EVI:Small:is available for their measurements. But if this part is very small
EVI:Have:have no further difficulty in understanding the methods leading to the
EVI:Every:sense also a continuum; for to every event there are as many
SEQ:Beings:Circumference
EVI:Systematically:gradually but systematically impoverished.
SEQ:Excels:Only
SEQ:Contains:Further
EVI:Length:gravitational field, at least if we attribute the length 1 to the rod
EVI:Used:and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
EVI:Simultaneously:whether or not both the lightning strokes occurred simultaneously. As
SEQ:Come:Infinity
EVI:Laws:The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
EVI:Each:squares. The arrangement is such, that each side of a square belongs to
EVI:Gutenberg:Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
EVI:Must:field. Before proceeding farther, however, I must warn the reader
SEQ:Uniformly:Straight
EVI:Earth:London”[3] I arrive at the following result. The earth is the rigid
SEQ:Vertically:Downwards
SEQ:Transformation:Events
SEQ:Test:Simultaneity
EVI:These:Under these conditions, the _u_-curves and _v_-curves are straight
EVI:Values:number of such systems of values, the co-ordinate values of which are
CON:Locations
EVI:Times:estimated difference between these two times is exceedingly small,
CON:Abide
REL:Problem:Solved
EVI:Water:the other. Both are half full of water. I notice that steam is being
EVI:Indicated:indicated in the diagram (Fig. 2), this problem is solved by means of
SEQ:Particular:Points
EVI:Validity:very much in favour of the validity of the principle of relativity.
CON:Although
SEQ:Table:Call
EVI:Point:From our point of view this means: The law governing the properties of
REL:Important:Maintaining
SEQ:Direction:Translation
CON:Operates
EVI:December:December, 1916
EVI:Examination:corresponding to that of a university matriculation examination, and,
CON:Deflection
SEQ:Must:Stated
SEQ:Space:Ordinates
EVI:Work:obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
EVI:Statement:with the much more comprehensive statement called “the principle of
EVI:Straight:this. For if they attempt to realise a straight line, they will obtain
EVI:Fitted:field is absent _i.e._ which have already been fitted into the frame of
EVI:Small:the solar system occupies only a negligibly small part of the spherical
SEQ:Surface:Table
CON:Obsolete
SEQ:Justified:Saying
SEQ:Domain:Considered
EVI:Contradictory:carriage—a result contradictory to the principle of relativity.
EVI:Line:straight line. Three points _A, B_ and _C_ on a rigid body thus lie in
EVI:Ordinates:co-ordinates when a gravitational field is present. In connection with
SEQ:Fields:Being
EVI:Refinement:[5] A refinement and modification of these views does not become
SEQ:Between:Point
SEQ:Steam:Least
EVI:Behave:But if rods of every kind (_i.e._ of every material) were to behave _in
SEQ:Disregarding:Influence
EVI:Simple:I. Simple Derivation of the Lorentz Transformation (supplementary to section XI)
SEQ:Infinite:Velocity
SEQ:Directed:Forwards
SEQ:Here:Paper
EVI:Accuracy:hundredths of a millimetre only. Thus great accuracy was necessary in
SEQ:Transformation:Magnitudes
SEQ:Geometrical:Modification
SEQ:Rest:Different
SEQ:Position:Might
EVI:Consideration:[19] Throughout this consideration we have to use the Galileian
SEQ:General:Vanish
EVI:Over:astronomer Seeliger. If we ponder over the question as to how the
EVI:Relation:A direct comparison of this relation with experiment is not possible at
EVI:Validity:this juncture the question of the validity of the principle of
SEQ:Diminishes:Zero
SEQ:Only:Recognise
EVI:Before:is nothing else than the energy possessed by the body[12] before it
EVI:Theory:crucial test in favour of the theory of relativity, for the
EVI:Only:Poincaré, whereas I can only touch on them briefly here.
CON:Exciting
SEQ:However:Might
EVI:Reference:http://www.marxists.org/reference/archive/einstein/index.htm
EVI:Time:are invariable with regard to time. No fairer destiny could be allotted
EVI:Space:body.” On the other hand, an observer who is poised freely in space
CON:Strives
CON:Literary
SEQ:Velocity:Neither
SEQ:Phenomena:Theoretically
EVI:Length:that motion. the contracted length being proportional to the expression
EVI:Physical:astronomy are to maintain their clearness, the physical meaning of
REL:Goals:Ensuring
SEQ:Theory:Purely
SEQ:Description:Visible
CON:Reason
SEQ:Lies:Foci
EVI:Then:necessary to take him from the one marked point to the other. Then the
SEQ:Identically:Satisfied
EVI:Riemann:to the method of Riemann of treating multi-dimensional, non-Euclidean
EVI:Works:Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
EVI:Substituting:transformation by substituting an infinitely large value for the
EVI:Gutenberg:Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
SEQ:Formulation:Form
SEQ:Whether:Universe
SEQ:Idea:General
EVI:Cannot:space-time continuum cannot be regarded as a Euclidean one, but that
SEQ:Able:Make
EVI:Light:Of course we must refer the process of the propagation of light (and
EVI:Question:astronomer Seeliger. If we ponder over the question as to how the
EVI:First:In the first part of this book we were able to make use of space-time
CON:Downwards
SEQ:Dimensional:Cartesian
SEQ:Facts:Experiment
SEQ:Hypotheses:Proved
SEQ:Hand:Cause
EVI:Displacement:sun,[22] and a displacement of the spectral lines of light reaching us
EVI:Natural:of its merits for the description of natural phenomena) in calling this
EVI:Intensity:to ρ0_V/F_ or to ρ0_R_. Hence the intensity of the field at the
EVI:Permitted:Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
REL:Here:Investigate
EVI:Differ:numbers (Gaussian coordinates) which differ by an indefinitely small
EVI:Fundamental:laws of fundamental importance, namely, the law of the conservation of
EVI:Standard:and which we employ as a standard measure. If, now, _A_ and _B_ are two
EVI:Showed:showed a red shift which increased regularly with the distance of the
EVI:Measurements:nothing more nor less than the results of measurements obtainable by
SEQ:When:Continuum
EVI:Absolute:been assumed in physics that the statement of time had an absolute
EVI:Lines:years. If the displacement of spectral lines towards the red by the
EVI:Circle:stars do not move in a circle. A system of co-ordinates of which the
SEQ:Area:Compared
SEQ:Very:Singular
CON:Numbers
EVI:Copy:with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
SEQ:Statements:Hold
SEQ:Satisfies:Demand
SEQ:Situated:These
EVI:Impossible:the sphere, which is impossible.
EVI:Illuminated:time the atmosphere is so strongly illuminated by the light from the
EVI:Classical:transformation, but, differing from classical mechanics, the _Lorentz
EVI:Moving:for what follows. Bodies which are moving under the sole influence of a
SEQ:Rotates:Round
SEQ:Celestial:Body
REL:Difficult:Form
EVI:Cent:represented by formula (B) to within one per cent.
EVI:Apparent:experience. We refer to the yearly movement of the apparent position of
CON:Recent
SEQ:Differ:Indefinitely
EVI:These:that these propositions are true?” Let us proceed to give this question
EVI:Coming:whilst he is riding on ahead of the beam of light coming from _A_.
CON:Flash
SEQ:Have:Formulated
SEQ:These:Time
SEQ:Lines:Towards
EVI:Dimensional:In this case relations hold in the four-dimensional continuum which are
EVI:Mechanical:reason nor known mechanical laws. Even though it is being accelerated
EVI:Occurrence:the same occurrence as judged from the embankment (as reference-body).
SEQ:Conception:Mass
SEQ:Transformation:Ordinates
EVI:Light:general theory of relativity, a ray of light will experience a
EVI:Archive:Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
SEQ:Gauss:Coordinate
SEQ:Work:Group
CON:Explain
SEQ:Point:Thus
EVI:Length:judged from the Galileian system, the length of this rod will be less
SEQ:Most:Notable
EVI:Earth:by the earth.” Modern physics formulates the answer rather differently
EVI:Eclipse:obtain photographs of the solar eclipse of 29th May, 1919. The relative
SEQ:Thus:Choose
SEQ:Mollusc:Treated
EVI:Without:It follows from what has been said, that closed spaces without limits
SEQ:Relative:Ourselves
SEQ:Line:Able
EVI:When:curvature of its path when passing through a gravitational field, this
SEQ:Then:Does
SEQ:Another:Later
EVI:Left:of elegance ought to be left to the tailor and to the cobbler. I make
SEQ:However:Modification
SEQ:Measurements:Capable
EVI:Field:magnetic field operates on the piece of iron, so that the latter
EVI:Identical:purpose we suppose that clocks of identical construction are placed at
CON:Owed
SEQ:Holding:Them
SEQ:Posted:Permission
EVI:Theory:deductions from the theory which admit of being tested by observation,
EVI:Over:extends exclusively over the surface of the sphere. Are these beings
EVI:Deviate:universe will deviate in individual parts from the spherical, _i.e._
EVI:John:particularly St. John, have been led to the opposite opinion in
EVI:Form:form, which renders it yet more clearly intelligible than it is when in
EVI:Case:(2). Obviously this will be the case when the relation
EVI:Hold:carriage, as hold with reference to the carriage when at rest or in
SEQ:Bodies:Dependent
EVI:Also:is always only an _apparent_ one. We might also think that, regardless
REL:Slab:Laid
CON:Quasi
SEQ:These:Reference
SEQ:Important:Results
CON:Legally
SEQ:Course:Theory
EVI:Time:space-time continuum cannot be regarded as a Euclidean one, but that
EVI:However:order to give due prominence to this relationship, however, we must
EVI:Means:possible to describe the position of a point (at rest) by means of
EVI:Entity:or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
EVI:Stand:observation. If we take our stand on the ground of classical mechanics,
EVI:Curvature:detailed examination of the question shows that the curvature of light
EVI:Respect:not hold with respect to the non-uniformly moving carriage. Because of
CON:Struck
CON:Sobral
EVI:Mechanics:observation. If we take our stand on the ground of classical mechanics,
SEQ:Objection:Attempted
SEQ:Required:Velocity
SEQ:Imagine:Simple
EVI:Reference:train as their reference-body must therefore come to the conclusion
EVI:Train:Let us consider two particular points on the train [8] travelling along
SEQ:Longer:Achieved
EVI:Know:matter as being something that is known. We know from experience that,
EVI:General:The most important result of a general character to which the special
EVI:Paragraph:of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
EVI:Twenties:However, already in the ’twenties, the Russian mathematician Friedman
SEQ:Illustration:Have
SEQ:Displacements:Lines
CON:Analytical
SEQ:Being:Very
EVI:Must:we must have
SEQ:Have:Problem
SEQ:Respect:Lorentz
EVI:Single:existence in the fact that it correlates a large number of single
EVI:Atom:of atom).[23] These two deductions from the theory have both been
CON:Destined
EVI:Pages:Our train of thought in the foregoing pages can be epitomised in the
SEQ:Free:Space
SEQ:Laws:Thought
SEQ:Each:Corner
SEQ:About:Velocity
SEQ:Very:Probable
EVI:Surface:squares made up of rods, _i.e._ its volume (surface) is infinite. If
CON:Colours
EVI:Other:position, of the pointers of the other clock, then identical “settings”
EVI:Events:(co-ordinate system); they regard all events in reference to the train.
SEQ:Attempt:Apply
SEQ:Similar:Experienced
EVI:Simple:finite. In fact, the theory supplies us with a simple connection[25]
CON:Errors
EVI:Absolute:basis the tacit assumptions of the older mechanics as to the absolute
EVI:Situated:situated there. These data must be supplemented by such a definition of
SEQ:Independence:Shown
EVI:Found:fact that no empirical data had been found which were contradictory to
EVI:Finite:infinite region of emptiness. The stellar universe ought to be a finite
CON:Enters
EVI:Directed:(directed towards the negative _x_-axis) of a point of _K_ with respect
SEQ:Astronomy:Maintain
SEQ:Solution:Difficulty
EVI:Being:infinitely large gravitational fields being produced. We thus free
SEQ:Justification:Feel
EVI:Considered:the second considered. We shall see later that this result, which
EVI:Rest:(world), relative to which points at rest remain at rest and points in
SEQ:Name:Associated
SEQ:Deceived:Physicist
EVI:Have:effect of gravitation. The results of observation have been collected
SEQ:System:Common
EVI:Same:contrary. It has been assumed that all these clocks _go at the same
SEQ:Measurements:Those
CON:Connecting
EVI:Ellipse:of gravity, lies in one of the foci of the orbital ellipse in such a
EVI:Ground:relative to a system of co-ordinates rigidly attached to the ground
EVI:Relatively:seen from a reference-body _K′_ which is accelerated relatively to _K_.
SEQ:Mass:System
SEQ:Strictly:Realised
CON:Convince
EVI:Them:able to state a reason why one of them is to be preferred to the
CON:Leave
CON:Prominence
SEQ:Both:Systems
SEQ:Along:Railway
SEQ:Magnificent:Structure
SEQ:Body:Supplemented
EVI:Manner:numbers to them, in such a manner, that we simply have:
EVI:Speculations:But speculations on the structure of the universe also move in quite
EVI:Present:The present book is intended, as far as possible, to give an exact
SEQ:Mathematicians:Have
SEQ:Exhibits:Periodic
EVI:Average:between the space-expanse of the universe and the average density of
EVI:Wood:body._ For instance, a piece of lead and a piece of wood fall in
EVI:View:But this point of view by no means embraces the whole of the actual
EVI:Time:immediate vicinity (in space) of the event. In this manner a time-value
EVI:Relativity:idea of relativity has supplied the laws satisfied by the gravitational
EVI:Simply:We can characterise the Lorentz transformation still more simply if we
EVI:Have:Maxwell-Lorentz theory so plausible, that the latter would have been
SEQ:Case:Must
EVI:System:of energy should hold not only with reference to a co-ordinate system
CON:Energies
EVI:Propositions:propositions is thus reduced to one of the “truth” of the axioms. Now
SEQ:Know:Prohibition
EVI:Upon:upon as the laws of electricity. At the present time we know that
EVI:Shall:We now proceed to the second argument, to which, moreover, we shall
EVI:Donations:Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
SEQ:Formerly:Independent
EVI:Electrodynamics:Maxwell in electrodynamics? Not in the least. Electrostatics is
SEQ:Measured:Measuring
EVI:Section:the fourth of the equations given in Section XI.
EVI:Free:To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
EVI:Research:effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
EVI:Equivalent:equivalent. As a result of this discussion, a most interesting question
SEQ:Galilei:Then
EVI:Manner:set in such a manner that a _particular_ position of the pointers of
EVI:Moving:moving with the velocity _v_. Hence we can say: If a body takes up an
SEQ:However:Taking
SEQ:Should:Expect
SEQ:Regard:Time
EVI:Problems:problems to which we are led by the general postulate of relativity.
EVI:Rest:indicating that the carriage is at rest, but the embankment in motion.
SEQ:Assumed:Nothing
EVI:When:(“world”), even when only a relatively small part of their worldsphere
EVI:Doubt:existence of the effect almost beyond doubt, while other investigators,
EVI:Full:active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
EVI:Project:works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
CON:Consideration
EVI:Theory:since the equations of such a theory hold for every body of reference,
SEQ:Considered:Results
EVI:Corresponds:corresponds to the embankment, and a co-ordinate system _K′_ to the
CON:Uniformly
EVI:Reference:reference-body) the laws of nature were to be as simple as possible.
SEQ:Exists:Gravitational
SEQ:Space:Easily
REL:Theories:Newtonian
EVI:Array:array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
SEQ:Represent:Following
REL:Something:Bluish
EVI:Most:In one of the most notable of these attempts Michelson devised a method
SEQ:System:Occupies
SEQ:Floor:Otherwise
SEQ:Assumptions:Older
SEQ:Case:Divide
SEQ:Space:Respect
CON:Variably
SEQ:Surface:Infinite
EVI:Stone:misdeed from the footpath notices that the stone falls to earth in a
EVI:Planet:planet which is revolving round the sun would describe an ellipse round
SEQ:Defect:Electronic
EVI:Mechanics:of mechanics in this way, without serious reflection and detailed
EVI:Light:light takes place according to this equation. We thus see that the
EVI:Continuum:continuum, has the same value for all selected (Galileian)
SEQ:Translated:Robert
SEQ:Event:Wherever
EVI:Clocks:THE BEHAVIOUR OF MEASURING-RODS AND CLOCKS IN MOTION
EVI:Differs:differs from zero, however small may be that difference, then the
CON:Hypothetical
EVI:Other:from any one point on this table to any other point by passing
EVI:Space:such encounters constitute the only actual evidence of a time-space
SEQ:Formulated:Always
EVI:Gravitational:body of the gravitational field prevailing relatively to _K_. It is
EVI:Times:line (_e.g._ along the floor of the carriage) as many times as is
EVI:Other:emitted continuously from the one pan, but not from the other. I am
EVI:Travel:travel through space, we should find everywhere an attenuated swarm of
EVI:Back:mirror to the other and back again, if the whole system be at rest with
EVI:Such:another, shall indicate position and time directly. Such was the
EVI:Give:These inadequate remarks can give the reader only a vague notion of the
EVI:Where:1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
SEQ:Possible:Choose
SEQ:Accordance:Equation
EVI:Characters:hypothesis of the hereditary transmission of acquired characters.
SEQ:Robert:Lawson
SEQ:Complying:Laws
SEQ:Pursue:Course
SEQ:Copyright:Notice
EVI:Shall:plays a fundamental role in this theory. In Part II we shall see in
EVI:Embankment:total he covers the distance _W = v + w_ relative to the embankment in
CON:Hypotheses
SEQ:Represents:Major
CON:Pretence
EVI:Place:(_a_) We imagine the rigid body, to which the place specification is
SEQ:Obsolete:Middle
EVI:Knowledge:purely formal addition to our knowledge, the theory perforce gained
EVI:Gutenberg:Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
SEQ:Hypotheses:Physical
EVI:Have:I have chosen this as being more familiar to the English reader than
EVI:Most:which holds most accurately, can be expressed in a different form in
EVI:Luminous:pan before. But if I now notice a luminous something of bluish colour
SEQ:Operates:Piece
SEQ:Distance:Also
REL:Disc:Increases
CON:Indirect
EVI:Motion:motion as our body of reference. We should then be justified (because
EVI:Ordinates:Gaussian co-ordinates, every such statement is expressed by the
CON:Measurement
SEQ:Body:Constant
EVI:Gutenberg:distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
EVI:Dimensional:co-ordinates we speak of it as being “three-dimensional.”
REL:Seems:Suggest
SEQ:Make:Space
REL:Charities:Charitable
SEQ:Original:Considerations
SEQ:Contraction:Consequence
EVI:Uniformly:travelling uniformly, and drop a stone on the embankment, without
EVI:Natural:we are then able to find how this known natural process appears, as
SEQ:Repeat:Myself
CON:Exhibits
EVI:Small:Mercury, this rotation is too small to be detected with the delicacy of
EVI:Centre:between the position of the clock and the centre of the disc by φ,
EVI:General:SPECIAL AND GENERAL PRINCIPLE OF RELATIVITY
CON:Synonymous
EVI:Physics:VIII. On the Idea of Time in Physics
EVI:Where:this, we need only ask where the beginning of the rod and the end of
EVI:Thought:deductive thought in the development of an exact science. As soon as a
EVI:Robbed:the theory of relativity, since according to this theory time is robbed
EVI:Space:space involves the use of a rigid body to which such events have to be
EVI:Rigid:In gravitational fields there are no such things as rigid bodies with
EVI:Start:We start off again from quite special cases, which we have frequently
SEQ:Physics:Shows
EVI:Distant:distant would be seen in the direction _D_1, as observed front the
EVI:Xxiii:Sections XX and XXIII).
CON:Replaced
SEQ:Case:When
EVI:Refund:by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person
EVI:Little:four of these little rods on the marble slab so that they constitute a
EVI:Kind:of the kind of gravitational field which may be present, we could
EVI:Result:But this result comes into conflict with the principle of relativity
EVI:Given:given the amount by which the radius sun-planet exceeds this angle
EVI:When:a straight line when the points _A_ and _C_ being given, _B_ is chosen
SEQ:Goes:More
SEQ:Particularly:John
EVI:Wish:if he does not wish to be laid out full length on the floor. He is then
SEQ:Perhaps:Temperature
SEQ:Apply:Copying
REL:Forth:Paragraphs
EVI:Agreement:by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person
SEQ:Possible:Draw
EVI:Without:The theory of relativity leads to the same law of motion, without
SEQ:Planet:Theory
SEQ:Second:Objection
EVI:Field:This law is not yet the _general_ law of the gravitational field, since
SEQ:Velocity:Motion
CON:Indefinite
EVI:Events:consideration. Up to the present we have only considered events taking
EVI:Hence:moving with the velocity _v_. Hence we can say: If a body takes up an
EVI:According:both lengths being measured with the same rod, is, according to
SEQ:Xiii:Connection
SEQ:Grazing:Incidence
EVI:Attached:relative to a system of co-ordinates rigidly attached to the ground
SEQ:Relative:Curves
SEQ:Conclusions:Based
SEQ:Since:Then
SEQ:Premises:Conjunction
SEQ:Whatsoever:Copy
EVI:Discrepancies:discrepancies to be expected between the stellar photographs obtained
EVI:Rest:bodies which are at rest relative to the disc, he regards as the effect
CON:Selection
SEQ:Here:Length
EVI:Following:interpretation can be obtained only if we recognise the following fact:
EVI:Results:effect of gravitation. The results of observation have been collected
EVI:Relativity:crucial test in favour of the theory of relativity, for the
SEQ:Field:Receive
REL:Behaviour:Measuring
EVI:Distances:diminish, until finally, at great distances, it is succeeded by an
EVI:Strings:strings to the floor, otherwise the slightest impact against the floor
CON:Force
SEQ:Points:Equivalent
EVI:Other:other half by the geometrical modification (“curvature”) of space
SEQ:Disc:Accordance
SEQ:Gutenberg:Must
CON:Photographs
SEQ:Possessed:Physical
SEQ:Considerations:Preceding
EVI:Theory:the time, which led us to our objective in the special theory of
EVI:Shall:We shall speak of its essential significance later.
EVI:Possibility:THE POSSIBILITY OF A “FINITE” AND YET “UNBOUNDED” UNIVERSE
EVI:Reference:point with particular points of the reference-body. We can also
SEQ:Something:Being
SEQ:Fundamental:Principles
CON:Favoured
REL:Objection:Attempted
EVI:Bodies:reference-bodies. If we replace _x, y, z_,
SEQ:Matter:Constant
EVI:Processes:natural processes, the laws of which are already known when a
EVI:Relative:we now assume that the relative distances between the electrical masses
SEQ:Velocities:Experiment
EVI:Obviously:Obviously our problem can be exactly formulated in the following
SEQ:Four:Squares
SEQ:Case:Space
EVI:Geometry:π exactly. This proves that the propositions of Euclidean geometry
EVI:Gregory:Transcription to text: Gregory B. Newby
SEQ:Reference:Bodies
EVI:Body:of light _in vacuo_ is satisfied both for the reference-body _K_ and
EVI:Right:equal right and equal success in the formulation of the general laws of
CON:Attached
SEQ:Kind:Operating
EVI:Whether:whether these propositions are satisfied for those real things we have
EVI:System:introduce into the latter a new Cartesian co-ordinate system (_x′_1,
SEQ:Physical:Hypothesis
SEQ:Section:Xviii
SEQ:Cloud:Erected
EVI:Constants:The equations (6) and (7_b_) determine the constants _a_ and _b_. By
EVI:Century:seconds of arc per century for the planet Mercury, but for the other
SEQ:Holding:Fast
EVI:Such:there exists a reference-body _K_, whose condition of motion is such
EVI:Position:at every position on the table. But our construction of squares must
EVI:Laws:light_, and that by systematically holding fast to both these laws a
EVI:Method:to the method of Riemann of treating multi-dimensional, non-Euclidean
SEQ:Carriage:When
EVI:Rigid:Flat beings with flat implements, and in particular flat rigid
SEQ:Lucidity:Formulate
EVI:Exact:It is clear that this definition can be used to give an exact meaning
EVI:Does:[5] A refinement and modification of these views does not become
EVI:Galileian:system “absolutely at rest,” and all other Galileian systems _K_ “in
EVI:Hence:to ρ0_V/F_ or to ρ0_R_. Hence the intensity of the field at the
EVI:First:to the best of my knowledge, was first discussed in detail by the
EVI:General:what way this result becomes modified in the general theory of
SEQ:Sent:Origin
EVI:Carefully:propagation of light _in vacuo_. Those of you who have carefully
EVI:Respect:measuring-rods and clocks, arranged rigidly with respect to one
EVI:Inexperienced:inexperienced in mathematics, but since it is not necessary to have a
SEQ:Acting:Himself
SEQ:Consequence:Measurements
SEQ:Light:Only
SEQ:Read:Book
SEQ:Class:Facts
EVI:Relative:the man were to stand still for a second, he would advance relative to
SEQ:Imagine:Spacious
SEQ:Copy:Display
EVI:Theory:GENERAL RESULTS OF THE THEORY
EVI:Consideration:and the action of the other planets under consideration. Thus, if we
EVI:Here:so here it is impossible to build up a system (reference-body) from
SEQ:According:Treat
SEQ:Always:Tacitly
EVI:Given:this phenomenon was given by H. A. Lorentz long before the statement of
SEQ:More:Than
EVI:Inaccuracy:of the inaccuracy involved by the finiteness of the velocity of
SEQ:Ellipse:Seconds
EVI:Farther:following pages, would perhaps have got no farther than its long
CON:Point
CON:Same
CON:Linear
EVI:Apply:itself when we attempt to apply our earlier definition of simultaneity
EVI:Belongs:squares. The arrangement is such, that each side of a square belongs to
SEQ:Entity:Whom
CON:Confirmed
EVI:Than:This equation expresses nothing else than the law of motion of the
EVI:Neighbouring:appreciate with sufficient clearness what I mean here by “neighbouring”
CON:Validity
SEQ:Agreement:Obtain
EVI:Star:transmitted to us from a fixed star, as compared with the position of
EVI:Being:co-ordinates we speak of it as being “three-dimensional.”
EVI:Expenses:liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
CON:Identification
EVI:Sense:return later. If the principle of relativity (in the restricted sense)
SEQ:Then:According
EVI:Space:the condition of transformation in exactly the same way as the space
EVI:Links:active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
CON:Euclidean
EVI:Followed:If the reader has followed all our previous considerations, he will
CON:Strongly
EVI:Motions:motions, in which the velocities of matter _v_ are not very small as
EVI:Minkowski:clothes. Minkowski’s work is doubtless difficult of access to anyone
EVI:Always:to imagine—after the manner of Faraday—that the magnet always calls
EVI:Section:If we drop these hypotheses, then the dilemma of Section VII
EVI:Conclusion:another conclusion from the theory, one which can easily be derived
EVI:Varies:of light varies with position. Now we might think that as a consequence
EVI:Serves:In (_a_) the embankment, in (_b_) the carriage, serves as the body of
CON:Length
CON:Revolution
SEQ:Beings:Find
CON:Instantaneous
SEQ:Implied:Including
SEQ:Hundreds:Volunteers
EVI:Suppose:Now we might easily suppose that the existence of a gravitational field
EVI:Given:material point of mass _m_ is no longer given by the well-known
SEQ:Inertial:Gravitational
EVI:Part:spherical “world” and not on a Euclidean plane, for a small part of a
CON:Straight
EVI:Absolute:absolute physical reality to non-uniform motion, in opposition to the
EVI:Project:things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
EVI:Idea:It was at all times clear that, from the point of view of the idea it
EVI:Carriage:line (_e.g._ along the floor of the carriage) as many times as is
EVI:Derived:of relativity (Section VII) has been derived by means of a
EVI:Protected:derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
EVI:Powerless:is powerless.
EVI:Should:should be supplied with an arrangement (_e.g._ two mirrors inclined at
EVI:Xxvi:But the considerations of Sections XXV and XXVI show us the way to
EVI:Supposed:our example of the railway carriage supposed to be travelling
SEQ:Expression:Approaches
SEQ:Book:Able
SEQ:Present:Case
SEQ:Elliptical:Since
SEQ:Measured:Standard
SEQ:Change:Inertial
SEQ:Paid:Sending
CON:Undertook
CON:Donations
EVI:Order:or to the same order of approximation by
EVI:Have:[19] Throughout this consideration we have to use the Galileian
CON:Pivot
SEQ:Section:Xxiv
SEQ:Transmission:Connected
SEQ:Written:Down
EVI:Available:Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
REL:Theory:Electromagnetic
SEQ:States:Individual
EVI:Follows:[1] It follows that a natural object is associated also with a
EVI:Every:ellipse of every planet round the sun must necessarily rotate in the
SEQ:Remain:Consistent
SEQ:Slowly:Towards
SEQ:Differs:Only
CON:Sirius
EVI:Work:Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
SEQ:Moves:Uniformly
SEQ:Online:Payments
EVI:Infinitely:an infinitely large number to be drawn, all of which correspond to real
REL:Measurements:Those
EVI:Between:indicated, we are also in a position to establish the distance between
SEQ:Played:Different
SEQ:Stars:Deduction
SEQ:Points:Holds
EVI:Sphere:passing through the surface _F_ of the sphere into its interior is
EVI:Form:compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
EVI:Mathematician:be clear even to the non-mathematician that, as a consequence of this
EVI:Measuring:disposal the means of measuring time. It would thus appear as though we
EVI:Enclose:enclose the average mass ρ0_V_. Thus the number of lines of force
EVI:Mechanics:by means of classical mechanics only on the assumption of hypotheses
EVI:Predicted:predicted effect can be seen clearly from the accompanying diagram. If
EVI:Available:is available for their measurements. But if this part is very small
CON:Regarded
SEQ:Enough:Make
EVI:Notifies:• You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
EVI:Attach:physicist), when I imagine that I am able to attach a meaning to the
EVI:Literary:The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
EVI:Respect:different behaviour of bodies considered with respect to the reference
SEQ:Designating:Always
EVI:Definite:definite law, as we proceed farther and farther away from the earth.
EVI:Experience:If now, as we find from experience, the acceleration is to be
EVI:Angle:(_N.B._—One complete revolution corresponds to the angle 2π in the
CON:Intuition
EVI:Counter:“counter-point” to the starting point. Under such conditions they have
EVI:Must:propagation of light must necessarily hold with respect to the
CON:Epitomised
EVI:Number:number π = 3.14 . . ., but a larger number,[19] whereas of course, for
EVI:Piece:a finite or in an infinite universe, because the “piece of universe” to
SEQ:Question:Truth
EVI:Contributed:important idea contributed by Minkowski. Without it the general theory
EVI:Mass:to unity. We then have the following law: The _gravitational_ mass of a
CON:Reaction
SEQ:Second:Principle
EVI:General:XXXII. The Structure of Space According to the General Theory of Relativity
SEQ:Motion:Planet
EVI:Measure:still we must grant it a considerable measure of “truth,” since it
EVI:Lieu:lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
SEQ:Raven:Different
EVI:Namely:analogy, namely, the three-dimensional spherical space which was
SEQ:Detour:Order
SEQ:Events:Localised
EVI:Vanilla:Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
SEQ:Back:Again
SEQ:Situated:Surface
SEQ:Reliable:Consideration
SEQ:Solid:Bodies
CON:Seconds
EVI:Statement:reference in our statement of the motion taking place. If it is simply
EVI:General:III. The Experimental Confirmation of the General Theory of Relativity
EVI:Bodies:reference-bodies _K_ the law is not valid. Both in classical mechanics
EVI:Equations:we obtain the equations
CON:Scarcely
EVI:Should:part. We should expect, for instance, that the note emitted by an
REL:Able:Demonstrate
SEQ:Since:Thought
SEQ:Principle:Immaterial
SEQ:Because:Attracted
EVI:Plane:shall imagine _K′_ to be in the form of a plane circular disc, which
EVI:Free:the line joining the free ends of these lines a “circle.” For a plane
EVI:Equations:have obtained the following equations:
EVI:Compilation:Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
EVI:Owner:TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
EVI:Intellectual:intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
SEQ:Train:Shall
SEQ:States:Ebooks
SEQ:Lies:Deep
SEQ:Dimishes:According
EVI:Copy:of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
CON:Strictly
EVI:Received:written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
SEQ:Supplemented:Laterally
EVI:Without:frequently, without paying the slightest attention to the elegance of
EVI:Bodies:reference-bodies. The validity of the principle of relativity was
SEQ:Perhaps:Feeling
EVI:Relative:year, the earth cannot be at rest relative to the hypothetical system
SEQ:Access:Full
EVI:Gravitational:the general theory of relativity, the general law of the gravitational
SEQ:Inertia:Centrifugal
EVI:Influence:for what follows. Bodies which are moving under the sole influence of a
EVI:Resemblance:some resemblance to the compilation of a classified catalogue. It is,
EVI:Universe:might fittingly be called a quasi-Euclidean universe. As regards its
SEQ:Optics:Became
SEQ:Laws:Satisfying
EVI:Fourth:the fourth of the equations given in Section XI.
CON:Periodic
SEQ:Based:Hypotheses
SEQ:Natural:Virtue
SEQ:Suggestion:Test
EVI:Light:phenomena (_e.g._ of light).
EVI:Make:long. To ensure the equality of the diagonals, we make use of a little
EVI:Then:we are then able to find how this known natural process appears, as
SEQ:Simultaneous:Simultaneous
CON:Caused
SEQ:Conformably:Point
EVI:Little:seems to suggest that, for the present at any rate, there is little
SEQ:Such:Description
CON:Evershed
SEQ:Subscribe:Email
SEQ:Points:Else
SEQ:Parts:Spherical
EVI:Propagation:law of the propagation of light _in vacuo_) have exactly the same form
EVI:Empty:We imagine a large portion of empty space, so far removed from stars
SEQ:Demanded:Theory
EVI:Themselves:themselves evident in practice. We shall not consider the motion of
EVI:Only:This applies not only to scientific description, but also to everyday
EVI:Significance:[4] It is not necessary here to investigate further the significance
EVI:Lead:also lead, and this despite the profound difference in the fundamental
SEQ:Ebook:Anyone
EVI:Train:of the train. If an observer sitting in the position _M′_ in the train
SEQ:Than:Maxwell
EVI:Relativity:relativity) we shall see that this “truth” is limited, and we shall
REL:References:Project
SEQ:Springer:Berlin
EVI:Called:four-dimensional, space-time continuum. We called these “Galileian
CON:Between
SEQ:Maxwell:Interpretation
EVI:Surface:surface would ultimately become infinite with increasing radius _R_ of
SEQ:Proximity:Perihelion
EVI:Files:License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
SEQ:Date:Prepare
EVI:Taken:he is holding in his hand. In this connection we have not taken account
EVI:Relativity:XXIX. The Solution of the Problem of Gravitation on the Basis of the General Principle of Relativity
CON:Otherwise
SEQ:Additional:Distance
EVI:Position:is hovering over Trafalgar Square, then we can determine its position
CON:Emitted
REL:Customary:Physics
EVI:Light:propagation of light. With this and with a second difficulty prevailing
SEQ:Called:Quasi
SEQ:Costs:Expenses
EVI:Together:electrical masses of an electron are held together by gravitational
SEQ:Conclusion:Theory
CON:Philosophical
EVI:Over:reference-bodies (or their states of motion) are given priority over
EVI:Average:ρ is the average density of the matter and _k_ is a constant connected
EVI:These:whether or not these displacements are to be referred in reality to the
EVI:Contact:and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact
EVI:Dimensional:beings is two-dimensional; but, like ours, it extends to infinity. In
SEQ:Unenforceability:Provision
EVI:Important:flash _A_. We thus arrive at the important result:
SEQ:Ought:Refrain
SEQ:License:Specified
EVI:Both:motion here taking place in the following two forms, both of which are
SEQ:Concerned:Conception
SEQ:Sections:Show
EVI:Considered:case in which the points of the surface considered form a Euclidean
EVI:Body:the disc may regard his disc as a reference-body which is “at rest”; on
SEQ:Without:Particular
EVI:Infinite:squares made up of rods, _i.e._ its volume (surface) is infinite. If
SEQ:Simultaneous:Sense
SEQ:Position:Establish
SEQ:Then:Respect
SEQ:Ordinates:Correspond
SEQ:Relativity:Those
EVI:Process:we are then able to find how this known natural process appears, as
SEQ:Experiments:Have
SEQ:Possessing:Motion
CON:Itself
EVI:Immediately:immediately follows. If referred to the system _K′_, the propagation of
SEQ:Orbital:Plane
CON:Illustration
SEQ:Always:Represent
EVI:Carriage:is the required velocity of light with respect to the carriage, and we
EVI:Plane:event to those three plane surfaces. The lengths of these three
SEQ:First:Place
EVI:Lorentz:THE LORENTZ TRANSFORMATION
SEQ:Electrodynamic:Theory
EVI:Prohibition:have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
EVI:Rest:clock is at rest, then the “rate” of the clock (_v_) when it is moving
CON:Establish
EVI:Description:description of natural processes, neither of the reference bodies _K,
SEQ:Equation:Derived
EVI:Time:but in the course of time it would fill up an annular part of the
SEQ:Distributed:Machine
SEQ:Neither:Case
SEQ:Drawn:Surface
EVI:Treatment:mathematical treatment of continua in general, in which
EVI:Reference:t′_, of a new reference-body _K′_. According to the general theory of
EVI:Small:have been made, their lengths being small compared with the dimensions
CON:Axis
CON:Releases
EVI:Regard:to many points in motion. The only statements having regard to these
EVI:Conclusiveness:not in the least diminish the conclusiveness of the experiment as a
CON:Meant
EVI:Distances:“size-relations” (“distances” between neighbouring points) are defined.
REL:Impossible:Construct
SEQ:Slovenliness:Treatment
SEQ:Form:Every
EVI:Gutenberg:or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
EVI:Travelling:framework. Similarly, we can imagine the train travelling with the
EVI:Theoretical:of theoretical physics. The work presumes a standard of education
EVI:Reference:relative to a particular body of reference.
EVI:Curvature:frequently referred, cannot claim any unlimited validity. A curvature
CON:Mentioned
EVI:Feel:regard the matter as quite settled, because I feel constrained to raise
EVI:These:fields, we can study the law of motion of these particles very exactly.
SEQ:Plane:Euclidean
EVI:Frequency:The frequency of an atom situated on the surface of a heavenly body
EVI:Theory:another conclusion from the theory, one which can easily be derived
SEQ:Property:Fundamental
SEQ:Form:Used
SEQ:System:Shown
SEQ:Second:Last
SEQ:Latter:Gravitational
EVI:Matter:matter. Thus we can draw conclusions about the geometrical structure of
SEQ:Unit:Time
SEQ:Errors:Copyright
EVI:Most:what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
SEQ:Such:Limited
CON:Erecting
SEQ:Clocks:Particular
EVI:Expected:discrepancies to be expected between the stellar photographs obtained
SEQ:Have:Further
EVI:Floor:line (_e.g._ along the floor of the carriage) as many times as is
EVI:Lorentz:The Lorentz transformation represented by (8) and (9) still requires to
EVI:Carriage:embankment. Now let us suppose that our railway carriage is again
EVI:Have:have obtained the following equations:
EVI:Simple:at school. Who would imagine that this simple law has plunged the
SEQ:Make:Number
SEQ:Sense:Same
EVI:Rest:for a co-ordinate system which is at rest relatively to the sun.
EVI:Used:reference-body (mollusc) used in the description may be chosen.
EVI:Approximation:a high degree of approximation. Now if we use a system of co-ordinates
CON:Fitzgerald
SEQ:Agreement:Must
EVI:Exact:XXVIII. Exact Formulation of the General Principle of Relativity
EVI:Corresponding:corresponding formula
EVI:Part:by our actual knowledge, played an important part in this process of
SEQ:Point:Only
EVI:Tension:determines the magnitude of the tension of the rope is the _inertial
EVI:Sign:account of their nature. For since electrical masses of one sign repel
SEQ:Solicit:Contributions
EVI:Permission:contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
SEQ:Protect:Project
EVI:Einstein:The Einstein Reference Archive is online at:
EVI:Edge:radius of the disc) tangentially to the edge of the disc, then, as
SEQ:Then:Resolve
CON:Shared
SEQ:Gregory:Newby
SEQ:Accelerated:Relatively
CON:Xvii
EVI:Brake:the brake, and that he recognises, in this the non-uniformity of motion
SEQ:Purely:Formal
CON:Operating
EVI:Section:section. If instead of “body of reference” we insert “system of
EVI:Apparent:amount indicated above, as compared with their apparent position in the
EVI:Relations:for the body. From these two relations follows:
SEQ:Body:Body
SEQ:Least:Thinkable
REL:Purpose:Numbering
SEQ:Respective:Values
EVI:Corresponds:body of reference. The following statement corresponds to the
EVI:Purely:as it were, a purely empirical enterprise.
EVI:Motion:field will of course depend on the motion chosen for _K′._ According to
SEQ:Moves:Round
EVI:Emits:neither case, and if I observe that the one continuously emits steam
SEQ:Does:Rotate
EVI:Indefinitely:(indefinitely small differences).
CON:Further
CON:Unique
SEQ:Nature:Such
SEQ:Continues:Take
SEQ:Clear:Vision
SEQ:Finally:Becomes
SEQ:System:Again
EVI:Status:state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
SEQ:Given:Lorentz
EVI:Considered:of two sets of numbers with the points of the surface considered, of
REL:Chest:Fixed
EVI:Intermediary:as a process impossible without the intervention of some intermediary
REL:Place:Time
CON:Kepler
CON:Accessible
EVI:Opinion:sufficiently obvious to ensure that differences of opinion are
SEQ:Admit:Being
EVI:Each:with things called “straight lines,” to each of which is ascribed the
EVI:Wish:in such a case, but I do not wish to go any farther into this question.
EVI:Piece:magnetic field operates on the piece of iron, so that the latter
CON:Project
EVI:Relativity:Relativity: The Special and General Theory
SEQ:Relative:Produces
SEQ:Description:Event
EVI:Certainly:the following objection: “Your definition would certainly be right, if
SEQ:Beings:Need
SEQ:Field:Present
CON:Committed
EVI:Vague:These inadequate remarks can give the reader only a vague notion of the
EVI:Intensity:directly; the intensity and direction of the field at points farther
EVI:Snapshot:we only require to take a “snapshot” of _K′_ from _K_; this means that
EVI:Line:state of rest or of uniform motion in a straight line. This law not
CON:Reasonable
EVI:Relativity:Part I: The Special Theory of Relativity
SEQ:Holds:Case
EVI:System:for a co-ordinate system which is at rest relatively to the sun.
EVI:Evident:themselves evident in practice. We shall not consider the motion of
EVI:Euclidean:another direction. The development of non-Euclidean geometry led to the
EVI:Rest:If, on the contrary, we had considered a metre-rod at rest in the
EVI:Exact:The present book is intended, as far as possible, to give an exact
EVI:Being:gravitational fields can be regarded as being weak, and in which all
SEQ:Detecting:Describing
SEQ:Farther:Farther
SEQ:Great:Distances
CON:Exclusion
EVI:Knows:light is propagated in empty space. Every child at school knows, or
CON:Scene
CON:Used
SEQ:Status:Work
SEQ:Velocity:Symbol
EVI:Relativity:accordance with the theory of relativity the kinetic energy of a
SEQ:Result:Obtained
SEQ:Search:General
EVI:General:the right when he believes that a general law of gravitation can be
EVI:Perpendicularly:relative to the surface of the earth by erecting a pole perpendicularly
CON:Reflection
EVI:Comparison:A direct comparison of this relation with experiment is not possible at
SEQ:Just:When
EVI:Imagine:yet it does not rotate in so doing). Let us imagine a raven flying
EVI:Whole:traversed the whole spherical space. It is easily seen that the
EVI:Itself:resolves itself into a number of statements, each of which refers to
SEQ:Number:Whereas
EVI:Manner:are provided with numbers in a corresponding manner, and they may
EVI:Fact:error, we can disregard the fact that in reality these frameworks would
SEQ:Covers:Distance
CON:Double
REL:User:Return
CON:Portion
EVI:These:these beings say their universe is “plane,” there is sense in the
CON:Indistinguishable
SEQ:Might:Appropriately
SEQ:Reference:Insert
EVI:Carriage:indicating that the carriage is at rest, but the embankment in motion.
CON:Lies
REL:Foundations:Classical
EVI:Without:that he can without reluctance interpret the facts of the case as
SEQ:Replace:Previous
SEQ:Also:Localised
EVI:Velocity:question as to how the energy of a point-mass; depends on the velocity.
SEQ:Cathode:Rays
EVI:Manner:manner that, in the course of a planet-year, the distance sun-planet
CON:Prominently
CON:Revised
CON:Going
SEQ:Time:Directly
SEQ:Certain:Last
EVI:Special:relativity that the special theory of relativity is overthrown by the
EVI:Both:of light _in vacuo_ for rays of light of arbitrary direction, both for
EVI:Define:coincide with these two points; for how else should we define the
EVI:Indirect:rigid rods, but by indirect means. If the results of physics and
SEQ:Shall:Soon
EVI:Based:existence, and in the theory of development which is based on the
CON:Therefore
EVI:Stated:Galilei-Newton, which is known as the _law of inertia_, can be stated
EVI:Expect:we should expect that a ray of light which is passing close to a
REL:Space:Time
EVI:These:number of these operations required is the numerical measure of the
EVI:Conservation:the conservation of energy (and of impulse).
CON:Clocks
SEQ:Domain:Leads
CON:Attempt
EVI:Body:body (_e.g._ the earth) produces a field in its immediate neighbourhood
SEQ:Concerned:Relation
EVI:Place:of rays of light can only take place when the velocity of propagation
SEQ:Fill:Annular
REL:Increase:Temperature
SEQ:Struck:Rails
SEQ:Surface:These
CON:Experiences
SEQ:Assumption:Light
EVI:Motion:those possessing motion of a different kind). In this sense we speak of
EVI:Body:body.” On the other hand, an observer who is poised freely in space
REL:Belongs:Every
EVI:Requires:A ray of light requires a perfectly definite time _T_ to pass from one
SEQ:Determine:Radius
EVI:Come:remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
EVI:Certain:which possess certain unique states of motion, and which are in uniform
EVI:Destroy:License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
EVI:Scientific:This applies not only to scientific description, but also to everyday
REL:Constrained:Believe
CON:Marble
SEQ:Mechanics:Newton
EVI:Euclidean:plane Euclidean geometry with their rods. In this connection the
EVI:Reference:Euclidean properties; thus the fictitious rigid body of reference is of
REL:Suffice:Calculate
SEQ:Independent:Nature
EVI:Suffering:the form of radiation without suffering an alteration in velocity in
CON:Thus
SEQ:Indicates:Reference
EVI:Obvious:sufficiently obvious to ensure that differences of opinion are
SEQ:Such:Universe
SEQ:Surface:Constant
EVI:Situated:the potential of the gravitational field in which it is situated._
SEQ:Foundation:Information
EVI:Constant:where the “gravitational mass” is likewise a characteristic constant
EVI:Obtain:inserting the values of these constants in (5), we obtain the first and
EVI:Imagine:reference-body let us imagine a spacious chest resembling a room with
SEQ:Limitation:Permitted
SEQ:Measured:Repeated
EVI:Consequence:of the disc is in motion relative to _K_ in consequence of the
EVI:Dimensional:four-dimensional points.
SEQ:Stars:Takes
EVI:Transmitted:transmitted along the negative _x_-axis, we obtain the condition
EVI:Planet:Newton-Kepler motion of a planet in its orbit should take place, and in
CON:Examination
SEQ:Discussion:Appear
CON:Friend
EVI:Evershed:Evershed and Schwarzschild on the cyanogen bands, have placed the
EVI:Shortness:despite the shortness of the book, a fair amount of patience and force
EVI:General:problems to which we are led by the general postulate of relativity.
EVI:West:The Foundation’s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
EVI:Simultaneity:simultaneity). Every reference-body (co-ordinate system) has its own
SEQ:Pole:Perpendicularly
EVI:Before:Classical mechanics required to be modified before it could come into
EVI:Already:sides of the fourth square are already laid, and, as a consequence, the
EVI:Consideration:consideration lies in the recognition of the fact that _the universe of
EVI:Later:starting point diverge farther and farther from one another, but later
SEQ:Berlin:Referred
EVI:Then:our rods in experiments analogous to the one described above, then our
EVI:Lines:number of lines of force which enters the sphere is thus proportional
EVI:Flashes:travelling train. Just when the flashes (as judged from the embankment)
EVI:Replace:Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will
EVI:Square:from the inverse square law. In this way it is possible for the mean
EVI:Material:least depend either on the material or on the physical state of the
SEQ:Kind:Then
EVI:Less:railway carriage would be a system _K_, relative to which less simple
EVI:More:almost an exact circle, which makes it more difficult to locate the
EVI:Tied:description; it is not tied down to the Euclidean character of the
EVI:Occurs:the places _A_ and _B_, where the lightning occurs, meet each other at
SEQ:Division:Expression
EVI:General:question leads to a general one. In the discussion of Section VI we
EVI:Answer:definite positive answer, and to a perfectly definite transformation
SEQ:Represented:Analogous
SEQ:Geometry:Remember
REL:Development:Species
SEQ:Actual:Direct
SEQ:Fast:Both
EVI:United:at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States,
CON:Resulted
SEQ:Photograph:Same
SEQ:Hold:Relative
EVI:Corresponding:been known that the ellipse corresponding to the orbit of Mercury,
EVI:Have:Thus we have obtained the Lorentz transformation for events on the
SEQ:Arbitrarily:Four
EVI:Another:invalid for another, is _a priori_ not very probable.
SEQ:Theory:Electromagnetic
EVI:Facility:facility: www.gutenberg.org.
CON:Backwards
EVI:Uniformly:when the reference-body is rotating uniformly.
EVI:Application:physics of measurement this is attained by the application of the
CON:Drawing
SEQ:Operations:Required
SEQ:More:Slowly
SEQ:Hypothesis:Without
EVI:User:• You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
CON:Connected
EVI:Then:relative to _K_, we then have
SEQ:Light:Passing
SEQ:Continuum:Still
EVI:Action:order correctly to represent the diminution of gravitational action
CON:Fasten
EVI:Remove:the considerations of Section VI in order to remove the apparent
SEQ:Comes:Conclusion
EVI:Following:This expression may also be stated in the following form:
SEQ:Simultaneously:Meet
EVI:Know:stone and produces its motion of fall. As we know from experience, the
EVI:Universe:the spherical beings can determine the radius of their universe
SEQ:Works:Protected
EVI:Transition:in the transition from one such system to another.
EVI:Mathematics:inexperienced in mathematics, but since it is not necessary to have a
REL:Precision:Recent
EVI:Likewise:likewise be of arbitrary shape. It follows that a value of _u_ and a
EVI:Follows:general principle of relativity. But in what follows we shall soon see
SEQ:Spectrum:Definitely
EVI:Damages:liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
EVI:Words:words: Can we conceive of a relation between place and time of the
EVI:Conservation:energy and the law of the conservation of mass these two fundamental
SEQ:Necessarily:Hold
EVI:Stated:rate_ if they are of identical construction. Stated more exactly: When
SEQ:Objection:Claimed
CON:Information
SEQ:Limited:Warranty
EVI:Relatively:is at rest relatively to it as at rest, so long as the mollusc is
EVI:Relativity:the special theory of relativity and to which we have already
EVI:Basis:transformation are valid. These last form the basis for the derivation
EVI:Clock:clock is at rest, then the “rate” of the clock (_v_) when it is moving
EVI:Field:general, in every gravitational field, a clock will go more quickly or
SEQ:Slab:Like
SEQ:Relativity:Rather
SEQ:Therefore:Follows
SEQ:Solution:Problem
SEQ:Sure:Reader
SEQ:Then:Express
EVI:Constant:field which is constant with regard to time. Of course he will be
EVI:Situated:which is situated in free space (or on the surface of a smaller
EVI:Definition:a gravitational field invalidates the definition of the coordinates and
EVI:Tube:mentioned is flowing through the tube with a velocity _v_?
SEQ:Also:Correspond
CON:Vanilla
EVI:Gaussian:Gaussian co-ordinates, every such statement is expressed by the
SEQ:People:Start
CON:Refrangible
EVI:Origin:the origin (_x′_ = 0) of _K′_. _t′_ = 0 and _t′_ = 1 are two successive
SEQ:Object:Associated
SEQ:Forest:Trees
EVI:Have:theory of relativity they have been united into one law. We shall now
EVI:Three:_x, y, z_ = three-dimensional co-ordinates
SEQ:Doubted:Without
EVI:Clock:clock per unit time (“rate” of the clock) relative to _K_ when the
EVI:Most:space-time continuum of the theory of relativity, in its most essential
CON:Choose
SEQ:Finite:Length
SEQ:Tick:Clock
EVI:Data:definitions for the signification of time- and space-data with
EVI:Real:exceeded by any real body.
CON:Uncounted
EVI:Course:every fixed star describes a circle of immense radius in the course of
SEQ:Does:Contain
EVI:Also:revolution of the planet. Our result may also be stated as follows:
EVI:Theory:which is foretold by the theory of relativity without the necessity of
EVI:Justifiable:equally justifiable:
EVI:Over:themselves clearly until this construction is extended over a
SEQ:Embankment:Relative
EVI:Conception:ourselves from the distasteful conception that the material universe
REL:Continuum:Three
CON:Apply
SEQ:Following:Illustration
SEQ:Processes:Neither
EVI:Reference:XXIII. Behaviour of Clocks and Measuring-Rods on a Rotating Body of Reference
EVI:Must:the law of the transmission of light _in vacuo_ [in vacuum] must,
EVI:Things:at the root of things, I dare not withhold it from the reader. We
SEQ:Expanding:Space
SEQ:Insurmountable:Difficulties
SEQ:Give:Second
EVI:Royalty:• You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
EVI:Particular:Let us consider two particular points on the train [8] travelling along
SEQ:Judged:Embankment
EVI:Then:grows from a minimum to a maximum, and then decreases again to a
SEQ:Values:Course
EVI:Relativity:special theory of relativity.
SEQ:Order:Remove
SEQ:Cannot:Retain
EVI:Carriage:direction of the velocity of the carriage would necessarily play a
EVI:Alternate:Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
SEQ:True:Other
SEQ:Consider:These
SEQ:Profound:Difference
SEQ:Reference:Simply
EVI:Form:This expression may also be stated in the following form:
SEQ:Space:Ordinate
SEQ:Propositions:Thus
CON:Resuits
SEQ:Perceptible:Terrestrial
SEQ:Physical:Point
EVI:Liability:electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
EVI:Coordinate:space-time variables _x, y, z, t_ of the original coordinate system
SEQ:Euclidean:Character
REL:Necessary:Have
SEQ:Plan:Assign
EVI:Case:means of which, in the present case, he can decide by experiment
EVI:Permission:obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
EVI:Process:From a systematic theoretical point of view, we may imagine the process
SEQ:Does:Assume
EVI:Epoch:we cannot pursue this course. The epoch-making theoretical
EVI:Person:by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person
EVI:Considered:in comparison with the second, which last is alone considered in
REL:Seek:Vain
EVI:Practically:do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
CON:Printing
EVI:Gravitational:come to the conclusion that he and the chest are in a gravitational
SEQ:Section:Order
SEQ:Means:Present
EVI:Points:distance _ds_ is associated with the adjacent points _P_ and _P′_, this
EVI:Relative:Since the same light-signal has to be transmitted relative to _K′_ with
EVI:Warranty:LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
SEQ:Latter:Move
CON:Inserting
CON:Idea
EVI:Given:However, the Gauss treatment for _ds_2 which we have given above is not
SEQ:Duration:Then
EVI:Kind:theory rather requires that the universe should have a kind of centre
EVI:Time:four-dimensional space-time continuum.
SEQ:Only:Take
SEQ:Written:Explanation
SEQ:Thoroughly:Proved
EVI:Gutenberg:destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
EVI:Above:amount indicated above, as compared with their apparent position in the
SEQ:Other:Project
SEQ:Arrived:Theory
SEQ:Systems:Permanently
EVI:Expense:(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
EVI:Donors:against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
EVI:Structure:THE STRUCTURE OF SPACE ACCORDING TO THE GENERAL THEORY OF RELATIVITY
SEQ:Case:Stars
EVI:Hypertext:any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
CON:Move
SEQ:Field:Ordinate
SEQ:Falls:Earth
EVI:Agreement:works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
CON:Computers
CON:Simultaneity
SEQ:Measure:Truth
EVI:Project:1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:
CON:Files
SEQ:Physical:Existence
EVI:Follows:clearly follows from the equations of the Lorentz transformation, for
EVI:Similar:constructions to be made with rigid rods _in the surface_ (similar to
EVI:Have:which have little probability, and which were devised solely for this
EVI:Available:interest is available in the province of biology, in the Darwinian
SEQ:However:Most
CON:File
CON:Scientific
CON:Compass
SEQ:Perhaps:Following
EVI:Above:absolute angular measure customary in physics, and the above expression
SEQ:Computers:Including
EVI:Correct:correct the observed motion of the planets for these two influences,
SEQ:Relativity:Rendered
CON:Reluctance
EVI:Points:measuring-rods, clocks and freely moving material points.
SEQ:Refer:These
SEQ:Motion:Kind
EVI:Mentioned:of which does not differ sensibly from the above mentioned +43 seconds
CON:Existence
SEQ:Case:Marble
SEQ:Extend:Ideas
EVI:Ordinates:IV. THE GALILEIAN SYSTEM OF CO-ORDINATES
SEQ:Point:Starting
EVI:Accordance:theoretical result is in accordance with the reality. We encounter the
SEQ:Rotates:Uniformly
EVI:Admit:I admit that the ratio of the circumference _c_ of a circle to its
SEQ:Agent:Employee
SEQ:Clear:Have
EVI:Relativity:insight into the theory of Relativity to those readers who, from a
EVI:Maintain:fulfilled if we are to maintain the law of the constancy of the
EVI:Indicated:manner indicated above; that for all the planets, with the exception of
EVI:Able:physicist), when I imagine that I am able to attach a meaning to the
SEQ:Propositions:Possible
EVI:Without:you share it without charge with others.
EVI:Before:and other appreciable masses, that we have before us approximately the
EVI:Measuring:BEHAVIOUR OF CLOCKS AND MEASURING-RODS ON A ROTATING BODY OF REFERENCE
SEQ:Stated:More
EVI:Federal:U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.
SEQ:Every:Real
EVI:Dimensional:point-event a “world-point.” From a “happening” in three-dimensional
SEQ:Experiences:Contraction
EVI:Come:of force” which come from infinity and terminate in a mass m is
EVI:Railway:“space.” I stand at the window of a railway carriage which is
EVI:Manner:Expressed in an abstract manner we may say: If a mass _m_ is moving
SEQ:Move:Towards
SEQ:Definition:Then
SEQ:Against:Centrifugal
SEQ:People:Walks
EVI:Gradually:for still further increasing values of _r_, the area gradually
EVI:Square:choosing one corner of a square as “origin” I can characterise every
EVI:Being:data does not allow of any definite decision being arrived at, as to
REL:Means:Measuring
EVI:Supplement:If, in pursuance of our habit of thought, we now supplement the
CON:Size
EVI:Project:or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
EVI:Centre:from the position of the clock on the rotating disc to the centre of
EVI:Order:a _stipulation_ which I can make of my own freewill in order to arrive
EVI:Simultaneity:the above definition), then the criterion for the simultaneity of the
SEQ:Theory:Time
EVI:Equivalent:etc., are equivalent for the description of natural phenomena
SEQ:Space:Removed
EVI:Infinite:perpetually passing out into infinite space, never to return, and
CON:Defective
EVI:Electron:the first to introduce the hypothesis that the form of the electron
EVI:Period:eccentricity, _c_ the velocity of light, and _T_ the period of
EVI:Fundamental:purchase our emancipation from the fundamental difficulties mentioned,
EVI:Paragraph:paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
EVI:System:marble slab. In like manner we imagine a system of _v_-curves drawn on
SEQ:Than:Love
SEQ:Unit:Mass
EVI:Lies:The great power possessed by the general principle of relativity lies
SEQ:Space:According
EVI:Extends:extends exclusively over the surface of the sphere. Are these beings
EVI:Over:perihelial movement of the orbit of Mercury remained over, the amount
CON:Deduction
SEQ:Demands:Special
SEQ:Probability:Devised
SEQ:Curve:Along
EVI:Special:royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
EVI:Same:body towards the floor of the chest is always of the same magnitude,
EVI:Thought:If, in pursuance of our habit of thought, we now supplement the
EVI:Proprietary:compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
EVI:Rest:(at rest). For this reason it is not possible to obtain a reasonable
SEQ:Employed:Classical
CON:Elegantly
EVI:Shall:here we shall have to deal in detail later.
EVI:Minkowski:Minkowski found that the Lorentz transformations satisfy the following
SEQ:Give:These
SEQ:Knowledge:About
EVI:Gravitational:in which there is no gravitational field relative to the Galileian
EVI:Provide:• You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
EVI:Dimensional:If we desire to adhere to our “old-time” three-dimensional view of
SEQ:Giving:Bodies
EVI:World:This four-dimensional “world” bears a close similarity to the
CON:Advantageous
EVI:Observer:rotates uniformly in its own plane about its centre. An observer who is
EVI:Theory:This view is not in harmony with the theory of Newton. The latter
EVI:Velocity:theory of relativity, the law of the constancy of the velocity of light
EVI:Number:resolves itself into a number of statements, each of which refers to
CON:Charm
EVI:Naturally:the table, it is possible quite naturally to maintain the point of view
EVI:Each:rod in common with the first. We proceed in like manner with each of
SEQ:Than:Translator
EVI:Work:Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
EVI:Help:agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
EVI:Conditions:simple conditions. Let us consider two neighbouring events, the
SEQ:Accordance:Principle
EVI:Relativity:relativity” the following statement: All bodies of reference _K, K′_,
EVI:Bodies:different behaviour of bodies considered with respect to the reference
SEQ:Scenes:Events
REL:Copied:Distributed
SEQ:Decision:Whether
SEQ:Cottingham:Crommelin
EVI:Every:every fixed star describes a circle of immense radius in the course of
EVI:Gutenberg:The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
EVI:Shared:freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
EVI:Gravitational:processes which take place according to known laws when a gravitational
EVI:Geometrical:the present we shall assume the “truth” of the geometrical
CON:Marks
SEQ:Simple:Propositions
EVI:Unlink:1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
SEQ:Registered:Trademark
EVI:Admit:mature consideration the reader will doubtless admit that in reality
EVI:Separated:1 when measured in the _K′_ system are thus separated in our
EVI:Science:deductive thought in the development of an exact science. As soon as a
SEQ:Direction:Arrow
EVI:Theory:finite. In fact, the theory supplies us with a simple connection[25]
EVI:Belong:value of _v_ belong to every point on the surface of the table. We call
EVI:What:assumptions of the two theories. In what follows, we shall again
SEQ:Transmitted:Relative
EVI:Parts:present case we can divide the problem into parts by considering first
SEQ:Gauss:Combined
EVI:Size:“size-relations” (“distances” between neighbouring points) are defined.
EVI:Editions:editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
EVI:Orbit:differ from 360°. The line of the orbit would not then be a closed one
EVI:Finds:thought a _theory_. The theory finds the justification for its
EVI:Plunged:at school. Who would imagine that this simple law has plunged the
SEQ:Supplies:Then
SEQ:Squares:Each
EVI:Deflection:(_b_) Deflection of Light by a Gravitational Field